Position Title
Border Patrol Agent (Reemployed Annuitant)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-RA-13028464-SNM Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Feb 26, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a former Border Patrol Agent with U.S. Border Patrol who served in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your last SF-50 as referenced below.  To support your response, you will need to submit a copy of your Retirement Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you previously held a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent; AND
You occupy (or have been separated from) a career or career-conditional (tenure group I or II) competitive service position of any agency; OR
You occupy (or have been separated from) an excepted service appointment without time limit, who has been provided by law with both noncompetitive appointment eligibility and selection priority for competitive service position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Ramey Sector, Aguadilla, PR
 B. Special Operations Group (SOG), El Paso, TX
 C. USBP Big Bend Sector, United States
 D. USBP Blaine Sector, United States
 E. USBP Buffalo Sector, United States
 F. USBP Del Rio Sector, United States
 G. USBP Detroit Sector, United States
 H. USBP El Centro Sector, United States
 I. USBP El Paso Sector, United States
 J. USBP Grand Forks Sector, United States
 K. USBP Havre Sector, United States
 L. USBP Houlton Sector, United States
 M. USBP Laredo Sector, United States
 N. USBP Miami Sector, United States
 O. USBP New Orleans Sector, United States
 P. USBP Rio Grande Valley Sector, United States
 Q. USBP San Diego Sector, United States
 R. USBP Spokane Sector, United States
 S. USBP Swanton Sector, United States
 T. USBP Tucson Sector, United States
 U. USBP Yuma Sector, United States


2.
Are you proficient and able to communicate in the Spanish language?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


5.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.


6.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


7.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 Yes
 No


8.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 Yes
 No


9.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


10.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that shows you have the skills necessary to interpret and enforce immigration or comparable laws, rules, and regulations, and to perform intelligence, prosecutions, investigations, and anti-smuggling, to identify operational problems, to devise solutions, to ensure compliance of enforcement and operational practices and to apprise management of deficiencies or noted problems.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


11.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


13.
This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement: To be eligible for this position, you must have Specialized Experience in law enforcement or other responsible work that demonstrated the ability to: Make arrests and exercise sound judgment in the use of firearms; deal effectively with individuals or groups of persons in a courteous, tactful manner in connection with law enforcement matters; analyze information rapidly and make prompt decisions or take prompt and appropriate law enforcement action in light of applicable laws, court decisions, and sound law enforcement procedures; and develop and maintain contact with a network of informants.

Do you have the specialized experience performing the duties above?
 I have the Specialized Experience in law enforcement or other responsible work that demonstrated the abilities above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


14.
Law enforcement positions in the GS-1800 occupational groups are covered by mandatory separation provisions at 5 U.S.C. 8335(b)(1), which requires automatic separation for individuals who encumber these positions at age 57 with 20 years of service.  Will you be age 57 or older, but less than age 60, by the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes
 No


15.
Law enforcement positions in the GS-1800 occupational groups are covered by mandatory separation provisions at 5 U.S.C. 8335(b)(1), which requires automatic separation, without exception, for individuals age 60 or older. In order to meet the 1 year employment requirement, will you turn 60 within the next 14 months?
 Yes
 No


16.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


17.

If applying to the Special Operations Group (SOG): You must have successfully completed the BORTAC Selection and Training Course. Have you completed this course?

*Please select N/A if you are not requesting to be considered for the Special Operations Group location.

**You will be screened out of consideration if you are applying to the Special Operations Group and have not completed this course. 

 I have completed the BORTAC Selection and Training Course.
 I have not completed the BORTAC Selection and Training Course. I understand I will not move forward for consideration with the Special Operations Group (SOG).
 N/A - I am not applying for the Special Operations Group (SOG)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙