Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-26-MP-12995801-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Lincoln, NE
 B. Muskogee, OK
 C. Houston, TX
 D. Waco, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Waco TX, Houston TX, Lincoln NE, or Muskogee OK Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Offices and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles only. For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees. Note: You may only apply to the Regional Office in which you are currently assigned.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Waco TX, Houston TX, Lincoln NE, or Muskogee OK VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, appointment SF-50 as defined in the “Required Document” section of this Job Announcement.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.


2.
For the GS-7 grade, you must have 52 weeks at the GS-5 grade (or higher). Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-7 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-5 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.
For the GS-9 grade, you must have 52 weeks at the GS-7 grade (or higher). Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-9 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-7 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


Instructions: There is an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) that must be met to qualify for the GS-0342 series. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate answer based on your current level of experience.


4.
IOR Specialized Experience for the GS-7 grade: One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.
Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization. Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.
Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization.
Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
OR

IOR Graduate Education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. For some positions in this series graduate education may not provide the knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience may be required for such positions. One full academic year of graduate-level education is creditable for GS-7.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level (GS-5) for this position.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education.
 I have equivalent combinations of education and specialized experience.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


5.
IOR Specialized Experience for the GS-9 grade: One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.
Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization. Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.
Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization.
Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
OR

IOR Graduate Education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. For some positions in this series graduate education may not provide the knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience may be required for such positions. Two years or a master's or equivalent graduate degree is creditable for GS-9.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level (GS-7) for this position.
 I have two years of graduate-level education.
 I have equivalent combinations of education and specialized experience.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


6.
To qualify at the GS-7 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as data gathering; applying knowledge of standardized processes and procedures to complete assignments, identifying problems from collected data and selecting solutions from alternatives in guidelines and precedent cases; 

OR

Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement for two-grade interval positions in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position;

OR

One academic year of graduate education (or law school, as specified in qualification standards or individual occupational requirements) in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-5 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree with Superior Academic Achievement or I have one academic year of graduate education in a course of study which demonstrates the competencies to do the work.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


7.
To qualify at the GS-9 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as assisting with the facility, equipment, and/or service operation design projects; assisting with analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs, functions and systems, giving oral and written presentations;

OR

Master's (or equivalent graduate degree such as LL.B. or J.D. as specified in qualification standards or individual occupational requirements) in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position;

OR

Two academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-7 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have a Master's (or equivalent graduate degree such as LL.B. or J.D. as specified in qualification standards or individual occupational requirements) or two academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in a course of study that directly reflects the competencies necessary to do the work.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙