Position Title
Assistant Chief Information Officer for Infrastructure Services
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ST-12920902-26-TGM Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who:
Has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND
Has not held the grade level of the position being advertised AND/OR
Has not held the promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.
To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your organization.

Please do not submit an award SF-50.


 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who has:
held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; AND
held the target grade level of the position being advertised; OR
held the promotion potential to the target grade level of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, your organization, and your full performance level.  Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1."  Please do not submit an award SF-50.

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you claiming eligibility based on an OPM interchange agreement or other special authority?

You may be eligible under a special authority if you are a:

Former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System.
Former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff.
Former incumbent of a position brought into the competitive service.
Disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.
Former ACTION volunteer.
Current or former Foreign Service officer or employee.
Former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
Current or former employee of the U.S. Postal Service.

There are specific eligibility requirements for each of these special hiring authorities. Please read OPM's code of federal hiring regulations for more details.

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Do you have experience administering, maintaining, and optimizing cloud-based computing environments, including migrating systems and workloads from on-premises to cloud platforms (e.g., IaaS, PaaS, SaaS) and decommissioning legacy systems?
 Yes, I have experience.
 No, I do not have experience.


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service leading enterprise IT infrastructure operations; planning and executing IT modernization initiatives (including cloud adoption and system migrations); developing or implementing IT strategies or enterprise architecture; managing cybersecurity or information assurance efforts; and supervising technical staff or managing large-scale IT programs while advising senior leadership?
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience.
 No, I do not have one year of specialized experience.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
You are leading a team comprised of members with varying skill levels, from entry-level to highly experienced. Which approach is most effective for ensuring team success and development?
 Treat everyone exactly the same, regardless of their experience, and avoid giving extra help to anyone.
 Adjust your leadership by giving more guidance to less experienced team members and more independence and challenge to experienced team members and more independence and challenge to experienced ones.
 Focus most of your time only on the highest performers and give minimal attention to others.
 Give no direction and let everyone figure things out on their own, regardless of skill level.


2.
You are responsible for managing an IT incident that is disrupting service for users. What is the most effective approach?
 Ignore the incident at first and wait to see if it resolves itself without intervention.
 Try to fix the issue yourself without informing anyone to avoid drawing attention to the problem.
 Follow a structured incident management process: quickly assess the issue, communicate with stakeholders, assign roles, work to resolve the problem, and document the incident afterward.
 Immediately assign blame to a team member and escalate the issue without investigating.


3.
You are managing an IT service and need to modernize the solution.  What is the best approach to the system's life cycle in this context?
 Conduct market research, develop an alternatives analysis, assess alignment with strategic IT plan, then propose solution for decision, with risks, costs, and implementation approach defined.
 Contact market vendor and build a prototype and deploy into the infrastructure to test the solution and identify what issues might exist.
 Continue to operate the existing solution until it breaks and is non workable, then propose alternative to focus attention on the effort.
 Develop a solution within your team and propose the solution first without including security, customer, financial or other interested stakeholders in the discussion.


4.
You are managing an IT team and want to ensure that their work supports the organization's overall goals. What is the best approach to strategic thinking in this context?
 Focus only on completing technical tasks as quickly as possible, without considering how they relate to organizational priorities.
 Let each IT team member choose their own priorities so work is distributed evenly and independently.
 Regularly align IT initiatives with organizational goals by prioritizing work that directly supports mission objectives and adjusting plans as those goals evolve.
 Concentrate on understanding organizational goals and intentionally prioritizing IT work that supports those goals, adjusting resources and efforts to maintain alignment.


5.
You need to ensure your organization is prepared for a potential security incident, if one occurs. What is the best approach?
 Write a business continuity plan and practice moving to a COOP site.
 Segment and segregate systems/functions and harden systems and network devices.
 Restrict physical access to routers and switches.
 Block all network traffic to and from the internet upon a report of a security incident.


6.
Which of the following is the best practice for performing routine maintenance or critical enterprise IT infrastructure with minimal disruption to business operations?
 Perform maintenance during regular business hours to ensure all staff are available if issues arise.
 Apply patches and updates immediately across all systems simultaneously to maintain consistency.
 Schedule maintenance during approved windows, use redundancy/failover systems, and validate changes with a rollback plan in place.
 Delay maintenance activities until systems show signs of failure to avoid unnecessary downtime.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙