Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12934796-26-RA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 D. Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 E. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego, CA
 F. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 G. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 H. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford, CT
 I. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 J. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 K. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 L. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 M. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 N. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 O. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 P. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 Q. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 R. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 S. Elizabeth Immigration Court, Elizabeth, NJ
 T. New York (Varick, Federal Plaza, Broadway) Immigration Courts, New York, NY
 U. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 V. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 W. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas, TX
 X. El Paso Immigration Court, El Paso, TX
 Y. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 Z. Houston Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 AA. Pearsall Immigration Court, Pearsall, TX
 AB. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, Salt Lake City, UT
 B. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 C. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services) position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-09 Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services).
 I have have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) Assisting with processing court related actions during court proceedings by generating, pulling, organizing, assembling, and providing required case files; 2) Processing legal correspondence and legal documents; and 3) Providing assistance in processing inquiries, legal notices, calendaring processes and procedures. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option)
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or LL.B. or J.D., that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the full amount of experience described in A above or the full amount of graduate education described in B above. However, I have a percentage of the experience and a percentage of the education which when combined totals 100% of the necessary experience and education needed to qualify for this position. (Only graduate education beyond one year, i.e., 18 semester hours, may be combined with experience under this provision.) NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-11, Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services).

 I have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) Processing court related actions during court proceedings by generating, pulling, organizing, assembling, cross-referencing and providing required case files; 2) Analyzing and evaluating administrative legal cases for hearings; 3) Providing assistance in processing inquiries, legal notices, calendaring processes and procedures; and 4) Processing motions, petitions, and other legal documentation. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option)
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the full amount of experience described in A above or the full amount of graduate education described in B above. However, I have a percentage of the experience and a percentage of the education which when combined totals 100% of the necessary experience and education needed to qualify for this position. (Only graduate education beyond two years, i.e., 36 semester hours, may be combined with experience under this provision.) NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Competency: None


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙