Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12829802 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 13, 2025 to Monday, November 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current HUD employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current HUD employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD employee serving on a VRA appointment
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Anchorage, AK
 C. Phoenix, AZ
 D. Little Rock, AR
 E. Los Angeles, CA
 F. San Francisco, CA
 G. Santa Ana, CA
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Hartford, CT
 J. Wilmington, DE
 K. Washington, DC
 L. Jacksonville, FL
 M. Miami, FL
 N. Atlanta, GA
 O. Honolulu, HI
 P. Boise, ID
 Q. Chicago, IL
 R. Indianapolis, IN
 S. Des Moines, IA
 T. Kansas City, KS
 U. Louisville, KY
 V. Bangor, ME
 W. Baltimore, MD
 X. Boston, MA
 Y. Detroit, MI
 Z. Minneapolis, MN
 AA. Jackson, MS
 AB. Saint Louis, MO
 AC. Helena, MT
 AD. Omaha, NE
 AE. Las Vegas, NV
 AF. Manchester, NH
 AG. Newark, NJ
 AH. Albuquerque, NM
 AI. Albany, NY
 AJ. Buffalo, NY
 AK. New York, NY
 AL. Greensboro, NC
 AM. Fargo, ND
 AN. Cleveland, OH
 AO. Columbus, OH
 AP. Oklahoma City, OK
 AQ. Tulsa, OK
 AR. Portland, OR
 AS. Philadelphia County, PA
 AT. Pittsburgh, PA
 AU. San Juan, PR
 AV. Providence, RI
 AW. Columbia, SC
 AX. Sioux Falls, SD
 AY. Knoxville, TN
 AZ. Memphis, TN
 BA. Nashville, TN
 BB. Fort Worth, TX
 BC. Houston, TX
 BD. San Antonio, TX
 BE. Salt Lake City, UT
 BF. Burlington, VT
 BG. Richmond, VA
 BH. Seattle, WA
 BI. Charleston, WV
 BJ. Milwaukee, WI
 BK. Casper, WY


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


7.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


8.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


Performance Appraisal
1.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14 position is defined as one year at the GS-13 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes:

-Experience and familiarity with the National Disaster Recovery Framework or National Response Framework; AND

-Experience analyzing the effectiveness and efficiency of disaster relief program operations; OR
-Experience in FEMA and/or HUD housing or sheltering programs.


1.
 Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙