Position Title
INTERMEDIATE PLATE PRINTER
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12974656-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
When the Bureau of Engraving and Printing completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the statement that best describes your level of experience.
 I have experience operating a large format, computerized, high speed, sheet fed production press in a printing environment without direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive only general instructions on new work and report only unique situations to the supervisor.
 I have experience working as a 2nd Pressperson, operating a large format, high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Presses, with direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive instructions from a lead press person.
 I am currently in a training program learning to operate a large format high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Press with direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive instruction from a lead press person.
 None of the above.


2.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume, indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
Select the level of experience you have setting up a press from scratch.
 I perform a complete Make Ready setting ink levels, inspection settings, check registration, assess fit and step and repeat, and set feeder and delivery without direct supervision.
 I assist a Journeyperson on a Make Ready setting ink level, inspection settings, checking registration, assessing fit and step and repeat, and setting feeder and delivery with direct supervision.
 I am in a training program learning the steps in a Make Ready including setting all ink levels, inspection settings, check registration, assess fit and step and repeat, and set feeder and delivery and only perform under direct supervision.
 I have no experience completing a Make Ready on a large format press.


4.
Select ALL of the following kinds of presses with which you have experience.
 A. Large Format Offset/Web fed Press.
 B. Small format Offset/Web fed Press.
 C. Letterpress.
 D. Large Format Gravure Press.
 E. Digital Press.
 F. High Speed Copier machines.
 G. None of the above.


5.
This presses experience must be clearly documented in your resume to include detail of equipment if applicable. In the space below, please indicate where we can find this information in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


6.
What level of hands-on experience do you have monitoring a Printing Press while operating and printing product?
 I monitor a large format press during runs with no direct supervision that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 I monitor a large format press during runs with direct supervision of a journeyman pressman that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 I am in training on the process of how to monitor a large format press during runs under direct supervision that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 I have no experience monitoring a printing press.


7.
Please select ALL of the following tasks you have completed while making ready/setting up a Printing Press for production of a printed product.
 A. Installing large format Plates.
 B. Aligning large format plates.
 C. Installing surface pieces or dies.
 D. Adjusting inking levels.
 E. None of the above.


8.
Please select ALL of the following tasks you have completed while making ready/setting up a Printing Press for production of a printed product.
 A. Adjusting electronic or manual ink keys.
 B. Adjusting the feeder.
 C. Setting the ink rollers.
 D. Adjusting the delivery.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Do you have experience making adjustments to a Printing Press according to manufacturer specifications while in production, printing product?
 I make adjustments to large format printing press without direct supervision within manufacturer specifications while in production.
 I assist a Journeyman in making adjustments to a large format press and am under direct supervision when making changes within manufacturer specifications while in production.
 I am in training on how to make adjustments to a large format printing press but have not performed the tasks independently or under supervision of a journeyman.
 I have no experience making adjustments to a printing press.


10.
If yes, indicate where we can find this experience in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Do you have experience operating any of the following types of printing presses; Flexogrophy, Lithography, Numbering/Letterpress, Block printing, Gravure?
 Yes
 No


12.
If yes, indicate where we can find this experience in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
Do you have experience utilizing tools and monitoring devices to maintain quality standards during production on Intaglio and or Offset Presses?
 Yes
 No


14.
Do you have experience running and using an online Inspection systems while operating a Printing Press in production?
 Yes
 No


15.
Do you have experience troubleshooting the cause of defective printing while operating a Printing Press?
 I perform troubleshooting steps including checking ink levels, print setting, plate position, basic equipment issues, etc. without direct supervision.
 I assist a journeyman in performing troubleshooting steps including checking ink levels, print settings, plate position, basic equipment issues, etc. but only under direct supervision.
 I am in a training program learning how to troubleshoot causes of defective printing that occurs during the printing process. I have not performed these outside of a training.
 I have no experience troubleshooting the cause of defective printing while operating a Printing Press.


16.
This online inspection experience must be clearly documented in your resume to include detail of equipment if applicable. In the space below, please indicate where we can find this information in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


17.
Do you have experience using tools to maintain equipment in a production environment? (If yes, select ALL of the following tasks you have completed.)
 A. Using tools to maintain a multi-color 38" or more sheetfed offset
 B. Using tools to maintain a letter press
 C. Using tools to maintain a web press
 D. Oiling the press
 E. None of the above


18.
Do you have experience using tools to maintain equipment in a production environment? (If yes, select ALL of the following tasks you have completed.)
 A. Cleaning plates and blankets press
 B. Making minor repairs
 C. Washing rollers
 D. Preventative maintenance
 E. None of the above


19.
Which of the following tools do you have experience using? Choose all that apply.
 A. Handheld densitometers & Spectrophotometers
 B. Micrometers
 C. Ink thickness gauges
 D. Chemicals for cleaning of inks and plates
 E. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙