Position Title
SUPERVISORY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-OIG-IMP-26-12978048 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Boston, MA
 C. New York, NY
 D. Cincinnati, OH


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Applicant must possess
one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of GS-13 or equivalent band level of responsibility in the Federal Service which includes experience:

1) Works extensively with the Special Agents and Special Agent in Charge to ensure that all cases, projects, actions, and priorities of the OIG are developed and accomplished in a timely, logical manner, and adheres to all legal and administrative guidelines;
(2) Direct and manage a comprehensive financial fraud, program integrity, and employee misconduct
investigative program to ensure the investigative mission of the organization is met;
(3) Analyze complaints and requests for investigations to prioritize initiatives and scope of
assignments based on factors such as jurisdiction, mission impact, and resources;
(4) Provide representation to internal and external stakeholders as a financial fraud, program
integrity, and employee misconduct subject matter expert;
5) Manage the planning and conduct of all criminal, civil, administrative investigations within the organization's scope of responsibility; and
(6) Articulate to staff assignments, projects and/or problems to be solved; action events; milestones; and investigative issues under review or evaluation.
 Resume reflects this experience
 Resume does not reflect this experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙