Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
IMP-12958802-26-LA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position; and have you never held the full performance level of this position?

 -OR-
 
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level than the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
 
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above.


2.
If you selected, "I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above", please provide an explanation. If you provided a response of A above, please type N/A.


3.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes the experience and education that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience and education in order to be found qualified.


1.
Applicants must meet one of the following basic requirements to qualify for GS-14. Select the statement below that best describes the experience you possess to meet the basic requirements for this position.

 I have completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. NOTE: Applicants must submit a copy of their transcripts for verification.
 I have an exception to this requirement based on the following: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade. Applicants must submit a copy of your SF-50(s) to verify.
 I do not have the education/training or meet the exception as described above.


2.
Applicants must have the specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).

 I have at least one year (12 months) of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 level of the Federal Service that included: 1.) Planning, developing, and establishing of the best contractual strategies in support of the agency/organization requirements; 2.) Planning and coordinating work to be accomplished by subordinates to include setting priorities; and 3.) Preparing applicable documents to execute contractual actions.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙