Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representative)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
26-KP-13047503-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Driver's License Requirement
1.
It is expected that a major portion of the services provided by the incumbent will be conducted away from the office, in the office of other facilities, and Non-Traditional settings. Extensive and frequent travel is required for this position.  This position also requires the employee to drive a motor vehicle.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation), GS-0901-10 grade level, with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment following acceptance.



TIME-IN-GRADE: Requirement for applicants who are/were federal employees: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 Notice of Personnel Action (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. The SF-50 must include your position title, series, grade, step, tenure (1 or 2), and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time-in-grade requirement.



1.
GS-10: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-09 grade level or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). NOTE: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting time-in-grade requirements.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-09 grade level or higher. NOTE: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting time-in-grade requirements.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: This section includes questions about the Specialized Experience for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the Specialized Experience for a Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation), GS-0901-10. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, Specialized Experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Read all responses before making your selection. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. From the responses below, select ONE response that best describes how you met the basic requirements for this position. Note: Experience MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.



2.
From the choices below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for an Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) at the GS-10 level.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-11, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) knowledge of Federal laws, regulations and procedures pertaining to compensation, pension and other VA benefits in order to accurately advise Veterans and/or their dependents of entitlements and eligibility; (2) ability to effectively listen and communicate verbally with people in person and via telephone in order to conduct interviews, explain benefits, present claims appeals, and foster an overall positive relationship between the public and VA; (3) ability to communicate in writing; and (4) ability to work independently in order to plan and organize work activities.
 I possess I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related. This graduate degree or education demonstrates the KSAs to do the work for this position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-10 grade level position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 My experience/ education is not reflected in the above statements "A" or "B", or "C", therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on your resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit AND through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information is grounds for non-selection and/or termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.



3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙