Position Title
Supervisory Fish and Wildlife Administrator
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-12979369-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Juneau, AK
 C. Long Beach, CA
 D. Sacramento, CA
 E. San Diego, CA
 F. Santa Rosa, CA
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Panama City, FL
 I. Saint Petersburg, FL
 J. Honolulu, HI
 K. Boise, ID
 L. Silver Spring, MD
 M. Gloucester, MA
 N. Woods Hole, MA
 O. Pascagoula, MS
 P. Beaufort, NC
 Q. Newport, OR
 R. Portland, OR
 S. Narragansett, RI
 T. Galveston, TX
 U. Lacey, WA
 V. Seattle, WA


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Fish and Wildlife Administration series, 0480 because I have:

 Degree: Biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major, or at least 30 semester hours in courses, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 Experience: Four years of experience that demonstrated that the applicant acquired knowledge and understanding of one or more of the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, or related disciplines equivalent to that which would have been acquired through completion of a 4-year course of study as described in A above
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Fish and Wildlife Administration series, 0480.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Supervisory Fish and Wildlife Administrator, ZP-0480-5 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-15) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-4) or GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Developing and implementing policy and management approaches for protected marine species or fishery management programs; and Performing tasks relating to the oversight of a program or personnel, such as assigning work, setting priorities, providing feedback on work assignments, developing and implementing program or project goals, policies and procedures, etc.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
This Fish and Wildlife Administrator position is a second level supervisor that oversees a large team of employees, including first level supervisors and multiple direct reports. In addition to supervision and priority setting, this administrator is responsible for the division's annual budget planning and monitoring. Which option below describes the most strategic way to manage the budget for a division that is responsible for a public trust?

 Create an annual division budget plan, seek input (from leadership, employees, key stakeholders); fund priority activities first; monitor and adjust the plan from actual expenditures throughout the year.
 Create your own annual budget plan; only fund what you perceive as priority activities; do not monitor actual expenditures.
 Do not develop an annual budget plan; fund division needs on a first-come/first-serve basis; stop spending once the budget is zeroed out.


2.
This Fish and Wildlife Administrator routinely interacts with internal colleagues (e.g. direct reports, higher levels of leadership, peers) and external constituents (e.g. fishing industry, academia, state agencies, environmental non-government organizations). Strong communication skills are extremely important for leaders to succeed in this position. From the choices below, what are the most effective communication skills for high level leaders to possess? Check all that apply.

 A. Active listening
 B. One-way communication
 C. Communicate with clarity
 D. Make assumptions
 E. Build trust


3.
What are some of our nation's greatest marine fisheries management challenges?

 Habitat Destruction
 Bycatch
 Overfishing
 Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing
 All of the Above
 None of the Above


4.
Which legal standard must a Federal agency meet under Section 7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act when authorizing, funding, or carrying out an action?

 The action must not result in any "take" of a listed species.
 The action must ensure it is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any listed species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat.
 The action must provide a "net conservation benefit" to the species in question.
 The action must be approved by a two-thirds majority of the Endangered Species Committee (God Squad).


5.
To be issued an Incidental Take Permit under Section 10(a)(1)(B) of the ESA, a non-federal applicant must submit a conservation plan (HCP) that specifies which of the following?

 The impact which will likely result from the taking.
 A guarantee that the species will be fully delisted within 10 years.
 A list of all previous ESA violations by the applicant.
 A formal recommendation for a National Wildlife Refuge expansion.


6.
Under the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), which federal agency is primarily responsible for the protection and management of whales, dolphins, and seals (excluding walruses)?

 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)
 National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS / NOAA Fisheries)
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM)
 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)


7.
Under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, which of the following best defines Level B Harassment?

 Any act that has the potential to injure a marine mammal or marine mammal stock in the wild.
 Any act that has the potential to disturb a marine mammal by causing disruption of behavioral patterns, including migration, breathing, nursing, breeding, or feeding.
 Any act that results in the immediate mortality of a marine mammal.
 Any act that involves the capturing of a marine mammal for scientific research.


8.
Stock assessments primarily determine:

 The abundance and health of a fish population and its ability to sustain fishing.
 The most healthy fish species for consumers to eat based upon abundance.
 The best seasons to harvest fish in federal waters.
 None of the above


9.
NOAA's National Marine Fisheries Service is responsible for the stewardship of the nation's ocean resources and their habitat. The agency provides vital services for the nation, such as ensuring productive and sustainable fisheries, safe seafood, recovery of protected resources and healthy ecosystems. Which three natural resource acts below is the agency primarily responsible for?

 A. Endangered Species Act
 B. Magnuson Stevens Fisheries Conservation and Management Act
 C. Migratory Bird Treaty Act
 D. Clean Water Act
 E. Marine Mammal Protection Act


10.
The primary objectives of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSA) of 1976 were:

 A U.S. law protecting imperiled species (plants and animals) and their habitats from extinction, aiming to conserve ecosystems by listing species as endangered or threatened and prohibiting harm, habitat destruction, and trade, managed by the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and NOAA Fisheries, with strong bipartisan support historically, and vital for maintaining biodiversity and ecosystem health.
 Prevent overfishing; rebuild overfished stocks; increase economic and social benefits; and protect fish habitat.
 Protect imperiled species and their habitats from extinction; conserve ecosystems by listing species as endangered or threatened; prohibit harm and habitat destruction; and manage trade.
 To ensure federal agencies evaluate the environmental impacts of their proposed actions by integrating environmental, social, and economic considerations into decision-making, and requiring public involvement in the process.


11.
This Fish and Wildlife Administrator position is responsible for overseeing and implementing federal laws as they pertain to our nation's natural resources and ensuring seafood competitiveness. Executive Order 14276 promotes the productive harvest of US _______.

 Seagrass
 Sargassum
 Seafood
 Snapper
 Shrimp


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙