Position Title
Supervisory Enforcement Manager
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS OLE-26-12907795-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
2.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Long Beach, CA
 B. Jacksonville, FL
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Saint Petersburg, FL
 E. Gloucester, MA
 F. New Bedford, MA
 G. Wall Township, NJ
 H. Seattle, WA
 I. Vancouver, WA


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience performing the work of an Enforcement Manager, ZA-1801-5 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-15) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band ZA-4 or (GS-14) grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Performing various tasks supporting law enforcement operations as a supervisor or manager; Establishing short and long-range strategic planning related to law enforcement; and Supervising or managing law enforcement personnel, policy development and executive functions.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
This position has a maximum entry age requirement. The date immediately preceding an individual's 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment to a position as a law enforcement officer as defined in Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) and 8412(d). This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in the Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement positions covered by Title 5 provisions, or to veterans eligible for preference. Select the one statement from the choices below that best demonstrates your qualifications regarding this requirement.

 I am currently under 37 years of age and will not have reached my 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this announcement.
 I am currently 37 years of age or older AND I am currently serving in OR I have prior Federal civilian (not military) service in a covered position. I have included all applicable SF-50s in this application packet to prove I will be eligible to retire on or before the mandatory retirement age.
 I am 37 years of age or older, but I am exempt from the maximum entry age requirement because I am a preference eligible. I have included appropriate documentation to prove my entitlement to veteran’s preference.
 I am currently 37 years of age or older and do not meet the maximum entry age requirement.


3.
If you selected the response that you are not subject to the age restriction because you are serving or have previously served in a covered civilian Federal Law Enforcement Officer position, please indicate the number of creditable years of service you have accrued. If this doesn't apply to you, please input NA. (Maximum length of 10 characters)



Assessment 2
1.
Under the Magnuson-Stevens Act, which of these federal agencies is primarily responsible for the implementation and enforcement of fishing rules in the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)?

 The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM)
 The National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS)
 The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)
 The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)


2.
Which of the following is NOT an authorized remedy or penalty for a violation of the Magnuson-Stevens Act?

 Permit sanctions, such as suspension or revocation
 Community service
 Forfeiture of the vessel and its catch
 Assessment of a civil money penalty


3.
What is the primary purpose of a Joint Enforcement Agreement under the Magnuson-Stevens Act?

 To authorize and fund state law enforcement officers to perform federal enforcement duties
 To allow foreign enforcement vessels to patrol U.S. waters for illegal fishing
 To eliminate the need for scientific peer review in management plans
 To merge Regional Fishery Management Councils into one national body



Answer questions 4-6 after reading the following excerpt of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act and then evaluate each conclusion against the following options:
True, which means that you can infer the conclusion from the facts given.
False, which means that the conclusion cannot be true given the facts.
SEC. 307. [16 U.S.C. 1437] ENFORCEMENT

(a) IN GENERAL.- The Secretary shall conduct such enforcement activities as are necessary and reasonable to carry out this chapter.

(b) POWERS OF AUTHORIZED OFFICERS.-Any person who is authorized to enforce this chapter may-
(1) board, search, inspect, and seize any vessel suspected of being used to violate this chapter or any regulation or permit issued under this chapter and any equipment, stores, and cargo of such vessel;
(2) seize wherever found any sanctuary resource taken or retained in violation of this chapter or any regulation or permit issued under this chapter;
(3) seize any evidence of a violation of this chapter or of any regulation or permit issued under this chapter;
(4) execute any warrant or other process issued by any court of competent jurisdiction;(5) exercise any other lawful authority;(6) and arrest any person, if there is reasonable cause to believe that such person has committed an act prohibited by section 1436(3) of this title.

(c) CRIMINAL OFFENSES.-
(1) OFFENSES.-A person is guilty of an offense under this subsection if the person commits any act prohibited by section 1436(3) of this title.
(2) PUNISHMENT.-Any person that is guilty of an offense under this subsection-
(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 6 months, or both; or
(B) in the case of a person who in the commission of such an offense uses a dangerous weapon, engages in conduct that causes bodily injury to any person authorized to enforce this chapter or any person authorized to implement the provisions of this chapter, or places any such person in fear of imminent bodily injury, shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.

(d) CIVIL PENALTIES.-
(1) CIVIL PENALTY.-Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who violates this chapter or any regulation or permit issued under this chapter shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not more than $100,000 for each such violation, to be assessed by the Secretary. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(2) NOTICE.-No penalty shall be assessed under this subsection until after the person charged has been given notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
(3) IN REM JURISDICTION.-A vessel used in violating this chapter or any regulation or permit issued under this chapter shall be liable in rem for any civil penalty assessed for such violation. Such penalty shall constitute a maritime lien on the vessel and may be recovered in an action in rem in the district court of the United States having 10 National Marine Sanctuaries Act jurisdiction over the vessel.
(4) REVIEW OF CIVIL PENALTY.-Any person against whom a civil penalty is assessed under this subsection may obtain review in the United States district court for the appropriate district by filing a complaint in such court not later than 30 days after the date of such order.
(5) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.-If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty under this section after it has become a final and unappealable order, or after the appropriate court has entered final judgment in favor of the Secretary, the Secretary shall refer the matter to the Attorney General, who shall recover the amount assessed in any appropriate district court of the United States. In such action, the validity and appropriateness of the final order imposing the civil penalty shall not be subject to review.
(6) COMPROMISE OR OTHER ACTION BY SECRETARY.-The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit, with or without conditions, any civil penalty which is or may be imposed under this section.

(e) FORFEITURE.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-Any vessel (including the vessel's equipment, stores, and cargo) and other item used, and any sanctuary resource taken or retained, in any manner, in connection with or as a result of any violation of this chapter or of any regulation or permit issued under this chapter shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States pursuant to a civil proceeding under this subsection. The proceeds from forfeiture actions under this subsection shall constitute a separate recovery in addition to any amounts recovered as civil penalties under this section or as civil damages under section 1443 of this title. None of those proceeds shall be subject to set-off.
(2) APPLICATION OF THE CUSTOMS LAWS.-The Secretary may exercise the authority of any United States official granted by any relevant customs law relating to the seizure, forfeiture, condemnation, disposition, remission, and mitigation of property in enforcing this chapter.
(3) DISPOSAL OF SANCTUARY RESOURCES.-Any sanctuary resource seized pursuant to this chapter may be disposed of pursuant to an order of the appropriate court, or, if perishable, in a manner prescribed by regulations promulgated by the Secretary. Any proceeds from the sale of such sanctuary resource shall for all purposes represent the sanctuary resource so disposed of in any subsequent legal proceedings.
(4) PRESUMPTION.-For the purposes of this section there is a rebuttable presumption that all sanctuary resources found on board a vessel that is used or seized in connection with a violation of this chapter or of any regulation or permit issued under this chapter were taken or retained in violation of this chapter or of a regulation or permit issued under this chapter.



4.
Under the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, an authorized officer has the power to arrest a person if there is reasonable cause to believe they committed any prohibited act.

 True
 False


5.
If a violation of the Act is ongoing, the civil penalty is limited to a single maximum fine of $100,000 for the entire duration of the violation.

 True
 False


6.
There is a rebuttable presumption that any sanctuary resources found on a vessel seized in connection with a violation were taken or retained in violation of the Act.

 True
 False


7.
The Divisional Assistant Director must oversee enforcement of several complex federal mandates. Under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSA), what is the primary legal standard required for OLE officers to conduct a warrantless boarding and inspection of a commercial fishing vessel in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)?

 Probable cause that a federal crime has been committed.
 Reasonable suspicion of a violation of the MSA.
 No specific level of suspicion is required; it is an administrative inspection.
 A judicial warrant is required unless the vessel is in hot pursuit.


8.
A high-profile investigation involves the illegal trade of protected species listed under both the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and CITES Appendix I. The suspect is a dual citizen operating a multi-national export business. Which investigative tool provides OLE the most leverage in disrupting the financial incentives of this criminal enterprise?

 Issuance of a Summary Settlement.
 Civil Administrative Penalty Procedures (15 C.F.R. Part 904).
 Asset forfeiture proceedings under the Lacey Act.
 A simple Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA).


9.
During a large-scale seizure of mislabeled high-value catch, a gap is discovered in the chain of custody documentation between the ship's hold and the evidence locker. As the final authority in the region, how should you address this with the Department of Justice (DOJ) prosecutors?

 Instruct the agents to recreate the logs based on memory to ensure the case proceeds.
 Disclose the gap immediately to the Assistant U.S. Attorney (AUSA) to determine if the evidence remains admissible.
 Proceed with the case and hope the defense counsel does not request the chain of custody logs.
 Summarily dismiss the case and return the seized product to the owner to avoid embarrassment.


Answer questions 10 and 11 based on the following scenario. You have been appointed as the Assistant Director of a NOAA Fisheries Division. An internal audit reveals that 85% of your officers are currently certified for the maximum 25% AUO premium, which requires an average of over 9 hours of irregular, unscheduled overtime per week.

However, the audit shows a significant "decoupling" between AUO claims and operational necessity. Many officers are claiming AUO for tasks such as finishing routine paperwork, attending scheduled training, or performing vehicle maintenance-which federal regulations dictate should be handled during the basic 40-hour workweek. You must bring the office into regulatory compliance while maintaining the capability to respond to genuine, uncontrollable law enforcement exigencies.


10.
According to 5 C.F.R. § 550.153, which of the following scenarios is a valid justification for an officer to remain on duty and claim AUO?
 An officer stays three hours late to complete a standard quarterly performance self-assessment that is due by the end of the week.
 An officer stays late to wash their government-owned vehicle (GOV) because the local car wash was closed during their regular shift.
 An officer is conducting a surveillance operation when the suspect unexpectedly meets with a high-level target at the end of the shift, requiring immediate continued observation.
 An officer arrives two hours early to prep materials for a pre-planned, multi-agency raid occurring the following day.


11.
At the end of the fiscal year, you determine that several employees have failed to meet the minimum average of 3 hours per week of qualifying "uncontrollable" work required for the 10% minimum AUO rate. What is the most appropriate management action?
 Allow the officers to "make up" the hours by assigning them to mandatory weekend patrols until their quarterly average meets the threshold.
 Ensure your staff initiate the process for eliminating those officers’ AUO eligibility, as the positions’ requirements no longer match the "irregular and occasional" criteria.
 Reclassify the regular, scheduled office hours as "uncontrollable" to ensure the agents do not lose their retirement-creditable pay.
 Issue a verbal warning that if their "uncontrollable" work does not increase, they will be transferred to a different higher-activity area.


12.
You have a talented subordinate who consistently delivers high-quality work but has recently missed several internal deadlines, causing a bottleneck for the rest of the team. How should you address this?

 Reassign their most time-sensitive tasks to a more reliable team member to ensure the department meets its goals.
 Wait until the annual performance review to document the pattern of missed deadlines and adjust their rating accordingly.
 Schedule a private meeting to discuss the missed deadlines, identify potential root causes (such as workload or process issues), and create an improvement plan.
 Send a formal written warning to emphasize the seriousness of the situation and the impact on team morale.


13.
Two of your direct reports are in a public disagreement regarding the technical direction of a project. The tension is beginning to affect the productivity of the rest of the team. As their manager, what is your most appropriate intervention?

 Step in immediately and make the final decision for them to end the debate and get the team back to work.
 Facilitate a meeting between the two individuals where they must present the pros and cons of their respective positions and work toward a compromise.
 Separate the two employees by moving one of them to a different project to permanently eliminate the source of friction.
 Ignore the conflict and assume that as professionals, they will eventually resolve their differences without management interference.


14.
Scenario: The Patrol Team is publicly criticizing the Investigative Team for not providing timely feedback on intelligence, resulting in missed interdictions. The Investigative Team feels the Patrol Team is too quick to engage and is compromising ongoing undercover operations. This inter-team friction is leading to a breakdown in communication, causing operational inefficiencies and morale issues.
Question: As the Assistant Director, what is the most effective initial strategy to address this systemic conflict and realign the teams' objectives?

 Issue a General Order mandating a weekly joint-team meeting, and assign a neutral third party to take minutes and track action items.
 Conduct separate, structured interviews with both team leads to identify core misalignments, followed by a facilitated cross-functional meeting focused on defining and agreeing upon shared intelligence protocols.
 Reassign all shared cases to a new, temporary "Task Force" to bypass the existing structure and eliminate the immediate source of friction.
 Implement a new performance metric that financially rewards individual officers for high-quality information sharing across the two units.


15.
Scenario: A member of the public files a formal written complaint alleging that a sworn officer/agent from your division engaged in unprofessional and aggressive conduct during a recent vessel inspection. The complaint includes a photograph of the vessel and the date/time of the encounter, but no direct video evidence. You are the Assistant Director responsible for oversight.
Question: What is the most appropriate initial action to take to ensure due process, maintain public trust, and comply with standard law enforcement procedure?

 Immediately place the officer/agent on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation and issue a public apology for the alleged misconduct.
 Meet privately with the officer/agent to get their side of the story, then use your judgment to dismiss the complaint if their account seems credible, as per the benefit of the doubt policy.
 Initiate a preliminary administrative inquiry, assign a neutral investigator (from outside the officer's/agent’s direct chain of command if possible), and ensure the officer is formally notified of the complaint and the internal process.
 Direct the officer's/agent’s immediate supervisor to conduct an informal mediation session with the complainant to resolve the issue quickly and without paperwork.


16.
A common challenge in law enforcement is that the number of violations is a lagging indicator and doesn't always reflect compliance. Which of the following performance measurement strategies would you implement to demonstrate the deterrence value of OLE programs?

 Increasing the number of citations issued year-over-year.
 Measuring the ratio of compliance assistance interactions (outreach) to subsequent violations in a specific fishery.
 Focusing exclusively on the total dollar amount of civil penalties collected.
 Tracking the number of patrol hours regardless of the outcomes or boarding results.


17.
Which of the following public affairs strategies is best to mitigate perceptions of unfair enforcement actions?

 Issue press releases only when major criminal convictions are secured.
 Direct staff to avoid public meetings to minimize conflict.
 Prioritize compliance assistance as a core mission, using these interactions to explain regulations and their intent of regulations before enforcement begins.
 Limit communications to official Federal Register notices only.


18.
Scenario: A recent regulatory change in a fishery has been met with significant industry pushback. Field reports and citizen complaints indicate a sudden, widespread spike in minor violations (e.g., misreporting catch areas, minor gear infractions) across the entire regulated fleet, signaling a cultural shift toward non-compliance rather than a few bad actors. Traditional enforcement actions (citations, seizures) have only exacerbated tensions, and the fishing association has publicly criticized the agency for "punitive and complex" rules. You must quickly stabilize the situation, improve compliance, and de-escalate the conflict.
Question: As the Assistant Director, what is the most effective and sustainable strategy to address this widespread, low-level non-compliance and rebuild a culture of voluntary compliance in the fishery?

 Launch a highly visible, zero-tolerance campaign by dedicating all available patrol assets to the fishery, issuing the maximum penalty for every observed violation to quickly create deterrence.
 Temporarily suspend the problematic regulation, pending a full internal review, to immediately de-escalate the conflict with the industry and restore trust.
 Partner with the industry association to host educational workshops and field demonstrations explaining the intent of the new rule, while simultaneously reserving enforcement actions for only the most egregious violations.
 Initiate a covert, multi-year investigative operation to identify and prosecute the highest-volume violators, believing that removing a few key offenders will solve the systemic non-compliance.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


19.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙