Position Title
Correctional Program Officer (Deputy Director, Staff Training Academy)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
GLN-26-13052019 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following:
 I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position.
 I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.
 I will NOT have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.)


9.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read the following question before selecting a response. This question will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Any error in your response will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your resume must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide any requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
FOR THE GS-14:

You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR:

Applicants applying for this position MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position.
 
Experience gained in a position which required the application of the principles of adult learning.  This experience must have been gained in a position which required selection of learning methodologies, implementation of the learning plan and evaluation of the degrees to which the learning objectives were met.     
To be found qualified, your resume MUST clearly address this experience.

Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position?
 Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses this factor.
 No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Correctional Program Officer position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.

You are the Deputy Director of the Staff Training Academy and have been asked to prepare a comprehensive written response to address concerns raised by an external audit evaluator regarding the agency's current training program procedures for specialized correctional officer training. The evaluator has identified several procedural gaps and requested clarification on how the agency ensures compliance with federal regulations. Your response will be reviewed by the Bureau of Prisons Executive Staff, the Office of Inspector General, and potentially Congressional oversight committees. The document must clearly explain the current procedures, justify the agency's approach with reference to governing policies and regulations, and propose any necessary modifications to address the identified gaps. The response requires technical accuracy, appropriate tone for multiple high-level audiences, and must translate complex training methodologies into clear, actionable language.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?

 Write an informal email to the Executive Staff outlining the main concerns raised by the evaluator, offering general suggestions for improvement, and requesting guidance on how to proceed with addressing the procedural gaps identified in the audit.
 Draft a detailed briefing paper that analyzes the current training procedures against federal regulations, provides evidence-based justifications for the agency's methodology, explains any procedural modifications needed to address the gaps, and presents recommendations in laymen's terms that can be understood by both technical and non-technical executive audiences, while maintaining a professional tone suitable for potential Congressional review.
 Create a draft article for the agency newsletter highlighting the recent audit, describing the training programs in general terms, and emphasizing the positive aspects of the current procedures while briefly acknowledging areas for potential improvement.
 Prepare a memorandum to the department heads explaining the newly implemented policy changes, focusing primarily on internal procedural adjustments and providing a brief summary of the audit findings without extensive regulatory analysis or detailed justification of the agency's training approach.
 None of the above.


2.

You are the Deputy Director of the Staff Training Academy and have been invited to participate in a high-level interagency work group meeting that includes Executive Staff from the Bureau of Prisons, representatives from the Department of Justice, members of Congress and their senior staff, and leadership from several other federal law enforcement agencies. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the development of a new national training liaison program that would establish standardized training protocols across multiple federal corrections agencies. You have been specifically asked to present the Staff Training Academy's perspective on training methodology, share expertise on implementation challenges, and provide recommendations that could inform national policy development. This is a sensitive matter that may receive media attention, and your communication will need to represent the agency's position while also contributing constructively to the broader interagency collaboration.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?

 Serve as the agency's professional training liaison at the interagency work group, present formal statements that articulate the Staff Training Academy's methodology and implementation experience, engage in substantive discussions with Executive Staff and Congressional members about training policy implications, provide expert guidance on standardized protocols, and contribute recommendations that balance agency interests with national training objectives while maintaining appropriate professional decorum for this high-level, potentially media-sensitive forum.
 Attend the interagency meeting representing your division on a national work group, share information about training operations with other federal agency personnel, participate in discussions about general training challenges, and offer input on procedures based on your field experience.
 Participate in internal workforce utilization committee meetings, brief department and unit staff on issues within your specific discipline, and provide informal training to co-workers on implementation of new procedures related to the training program.
 Hold regular meetings with your immediate staff to discuss the interagency work group topics, prepare written summaries of training issues to share with management, and coordinate internally to develop the agency's position before any external presentations.
 None of the above.


3.

You are the Deputy Director of the Staff Training Academy and have identified concerning patterns in operational review data showing that three similar correctional facilities within your region have significantly different outcomes in terms of staff preparedness, incident response effectiveness, and training completion rates despite using the same standardized curriculum. Facility A shows excellent performance across all metrics, Facility B demonstrates moderate success with some gaps in specialized training areas, and Facility C is struggling with high training dropout rates and poor incident response scores. You have access to performance data, budget reports from the financial management office, staffing utilization statistics, current governing policies and regulations from both agency and federal sources, operational review reports, and feedback from subordinate managers at each facility. Senior leadership has tasked you with analyzing this situation and providing comprehensive recommendations that could be implemented as new agency-wide policy to ensure consistent training effectiveness across all facilities while accounting for facility-specific variables.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate analytical and recommendation approach in this situation?

 Conduct a comprehensive analysis by evaluating current operating procedures at all three facilities against governing policies and regulations, examine the statistical data to identify root causes of performance disparities, assess budget allocation and staffing utilization patterns, participate as a member of a cross-functional team to analyze local facility issues and recommend evidence-based solutions, coordinate with technical assistance programs to address the specific deficiencies at Facilities B and C, review and update local policies based on best practices observed at Facility A, ensure corrective action is initiated through program reviews, optimize staffing utilization plans and goals while setting specific accountability standards for subordinate managers, and develop a comprehensive solution that could be scaled agency-wide to prevent similar disparities in training program effectiveness.
 Participate as a member of a task force to review the three facilities' policies and procedures, compare operations in similar facilities to identify general patterns, review key performance indicators, make recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs, analyze current trends and practices, and submit a position allocation proposal to address future staffing needs at the underperforming facilities.
 Focus analysis primarily on budget requests for additional training resources at the underperforming facilities, prepare straightforward recommendations for increased funding, and suggest that facility leadership should address local training issues through their existing procedures.
 Review and maintain statistical analysis of workforce characteristics at the three facilities, compare operations of similar facilities using available indicators and information, maintain reference files of legislative and policy documents for completing similar assignments, and prepare basic comparative reports on facility performance.
 None of the above.


4.

You are the Deputy Director of the Staff Training Academy overseeing a team of training coordinators and instructional staff. You have recently identified that one of your subordinate managers, who oversees curriculum development for specialized correctional training, has strong technical knowledge but struggles with effective time management and delegation, often working excessive hours while their team members remain underutilized. Additionally, you've noticed through performance tracking data that several training staff under this manager have not met their professional development deadlines, and class evaluations indicate inconsistent instructional quality across different instructors in the unit. The manager has expressed interest in advancing to a director-level position within the next two years. You have access to the performance appraisal system, professional development resources, formal mentoring programs, pre-established training directives, and the ability to restructure assignments. Your goal is to develop this manager's leadership capabilities while simultaneously improving the overall performance and career development of their team members.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory and development approach in this situation?

 Implement a structured development plan by combining monthly one-on-one meetings that include targeted training sessions on delegation and time management, utilize the performance appraisal system to track specific assignments and ensure all professional development deadlines are met by the team, design and deliver a class specifically focused on improving performance and leadership development using pre-established program directives and lesson plans, provide formal coaching and mentoring through the agency's established mentoring program to prepare the manager for director-level responsibilities, and create opportunities for the manager to lead cross-departmental projects that require coordination and cooperation with other divisions to build their leadership experience and accountability.
 Focus primarily on addressing the immediate instructional quality issues by personally reviewing lesson plans and providing technical feedback, directly reassigning some of the manager's workload to other staff to reduce their overtime hours, and suggesting the manager attend available professional development workshops.
 Complete comprehensive performance evaluations that address both the manager's individual strengths and weaknesses as well as their team's performance gaps, adjust staff duties and assignments within the division to better distribute workload, serve as a leader directing the work of the curriculum development unit during the transition period, lead a project/task force that involves coordination with other departments to model effective leadership, submit formal recommendations for the manager to receive additional leadership training, and counsel the manager on their current performance challenges before considering them for promotion.
 Assign and review the work of the manager and their subordinates, complete periodic performance evaluations, adjust staff duties and assignments as needed to address immediate workload concerns, direct the work of subordinates when necessary, recommend the manager for standard awards based on their technical expertise, and provide general counseling on performance expectations.
 None of the above.


5.

You are the Deputy Director of the Staff Training Academy and have been assigned to lead the development and implementation of a new agency-wide training program focused on advanced de-escalation techniques and trauma-informed correctional practices. This initiative stems from recent legislative changes and updated federal guidelines requiring all correctional staff to complete specialized training in these areas. The program needs to be designed from the ground up, including curriculum development, instructor selection and training, coordination with multiple field locations across different regions, and alignment with graduate-level coursework in fields such as social sciences, human resources, education, and organizational development. You must conduct a comprehensive needs assessment across all agency divisions, coordinate with external subject matter experts, develop the instructional framework, establish implementation timelines, create evaluation mechanisms, and serve as the workgroup leader for the cross-functional team developing this program. Senior leadership expects this program to become a model for other agencies and has asked you to present the development process and outcomes at an upcoming national corrections conference.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate training program identification and coordination approach in this situation?

 Facilitate the operation of the new training program by reviewing evaluation forms on instructors to determine areas needing improvement, provide guidance and assistance to field locations regarding employee development training implementation, conduct the needs assessment, and deliver at least one course that provides participants with formal instruction skills related to the new curriculum content.
 Focus primarily on the logistical aspects by identifying available training resources, coordinating schedules with existing training programs, arranging for external consultants to develop the curriculum, and ensuring administrative support is in place for program implementation.
 Coordinate the day-to-day activities of the training program by preparing audiovisual materials for instructors, scheduling instructors and classes across multiple locations, confirming availability of classroom space and resources, ensuring instructors arrive at proper teaching locations, assist in developing the annual training plan to address staff needs, and provide participants with one course covering formal instruction skills or basic instructional material design related to the new training topic.
 Independently manage and coordinate the entire training program development process by conducting a comprehensive needs assessment across all agency divisions, develop and implement modifications to create the new specialized training curriculum aligned with adult learning principles, function as the workgroup leader for the cross-functional task force responsible for designing the training framework and implementation strategy, plan and coordinate all training programs based on management requests and graduate-level coursework in relevant fields such as social sciences, human resources, education, management, curriculum development, and organizational development, and coordinate with field-related training programs in at least two specialized areas to ensure comprehensive coverage of de-escalation and trauma-informed practices.
 None of the Above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙