Position Title
Program Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
331-26-WSJ-13000435-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the {Program Support Assistant, GS-0303-05/06 position with Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of  Veterans Affairs (VA) and CTAP eligible. Are you currently a permanent employee of the VA or CTAP eligible?

 Yes, I am currently a permanent employee of the VA and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and I will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirements above, therefore, I am not eligible for this position.


2.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-5 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response)
 Yes, I have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-5 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 No, I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time in grade as a GS-5 grade level or higher.


3.
To qualify for the GS-05, applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal Service performing the following duties independently or with minimal supervision: photocopying and/or preparing reproduction orders, maintaining inventory of station bulk supplies and distributing those supplies as needed to other divisions; proficient in processing incoming and outgoing mail including the processing of priority and express mail; experience in compiling and summarizing information and data in order to provide internal control reports, mailroom data, etc.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-04 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have a Bachelor's degree (in any field) or four (4) years of education above high school leading to a Bachelor's degree.
 I have a combination of experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of education beyond two years by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-06, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least to the next lower grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Federal Service performing the following duties: maintains controls of and prepares designated reports; maintains control over priority mail; assists in the management of the unit mail management system to include diagnoses of equipment malfunctions, operating problems, and performs corrective adjustments; ensures adequate supplies are maintained within the division to support continuous RO operations; analyzes supply levels on a recurring basis to determine the rate of utilization, and advises the Support Services Specialist when supply orders are required; provides guidance and assistance on procedures, report requirements, deadlines and related matters to assure compliance with Support Services policies.
 I have at least one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-5 level as described above and in the job announcement. This experience is clearly stated in my resume.
 I do not possess the experience described.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙