Position Title
Food Service Worker - Bowling
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26328 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
Completion of this questionnaire is required; it is a condition of employment.


1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to work a Part-time work schedule. A part-time schedule describes work performed between 20 to 34 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for the position of Food Service Worker.  Please fill out the questions below to the best of your abilities.


1.
How many years of knowledge and experience do you have in the use of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination in a food service environment do you have?
 I have over 1 year of knowledge and experience in the use of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination in a food service environment?
 I have 1 year of knowledge and experience in the use of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination in a food service environment?
 I have less than 6 months of knowledge and experience in the use of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination in a food service environment?
 I have no knowledge and experience in the use of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination in a food service environment?


2.
Do you have cash handling experience, or the ability to do simple arithmetic and to read instructions?
 No, I do not have cash handling experience, or the ability to do simple arithmetic and to read instructions?
 Yes, I have cash handling experience, or the ability to do simple arithmetic and to read instructions.


3.
Do you have experience in operating and maintaining a dishwasher; insuring proper cleaning of the dishwasher, inside and out?
 Yes, I have less than 1 year experience in operating and maintaining a dishwasher; insuring proper cleaning of the dishwasher, inside and out?
 Yes, I have one to 2 years experience in operating and maintaining a dishwasher; insuring proper cleaning of the dishwasher, inside and out?
 No, I do not have experience in operating and maintaining a dishwasher; insuring proper cleaning of the dishwasher, inside and out?
 Yes, I have more than 2 years experience in operating and maintaining a dishwasher; insuring proper cleaning of the dishwasher, inside and out?


4.
What experience do you have in the food service industry?
 I have one to 2 years experience in the food service industry.
 I have more than 2 years experience in the food service industry.
 I have no experience in the food service industry.
 I have less than 1 year experience in the food service industry.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙