Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-1989696280-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Mechanic position with the Defense Health Agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance and repair activities. I am skilled in a variety of work primarily involving constructing, altering, repairing, and modifying items made of metal, wood, and wood substitutes. I am also skilled in assembling, disassembling, installing, repairing, and modifying steel stud framing, wood, and wood structures for structural soundness to include creating or working from complex drawings as a layout of the entire floor plan, ensuring assembly is consistent with building codes, safety standards, local standards, and manufacturing standards. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance and repair activities. I am skilled in a variety of work primarily constructing, altering, repairing, and modifying items made of metal, wood, and wood substitutes. I am also skilled in assembling, disassembling, installing, repairing, and modifying steel stud framing, wood, and wood structures for structural soundness to include creating or working from complex drawings as a layout of the entire floor plan, ensuring assembly is consistent with building codes, safety standards, local standards, and manufacturing standards. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance tasks. I can perform a variety of work primarily involving constructing, altering, repairing, and modifying items made of metal, wood, and wood substitutes. In addition, I have the ability to assemble, disassemble, install, repair, and modify steel stud framing, wood, and wood structures for structural soundness. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple repairs or maintenance work or I have received training in this area.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙