Position Title
SUPERVISORY SURFACE MAINTENANCE SPECIALIST (MERIT, T32, TEMP)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13068391-AR-26-270 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Oct 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard. (Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/MOS to include skill level. *



Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
• Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
• Drill status and Full-time positions listed separately
• Duties listed under each position held(be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
• Employer's name and address
• Supervisor's name and contact information
• Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
• Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
• Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
• Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
• High school graduation date, if applicable
• AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.

 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the GS11 Specialized Experience criteria below?
GS-11 - 1-year specialized experience to at least the next lower grade that provided experience in applying principles, concepts, and methods of equipment, facility, or service operations sufficient in planning assignments. Experience using well-established occupational methods and techniques to determine facility, grounds, equipment overhaul, maintenance, restoration, repair needs, etc. Experience in determination of resource needs, allocation of resources, and budgeting/funding needs. Experience in human resources management policy matters affecting the entire organization, with personnel actions affecting key employees to include experience coordinating work forces and resources and negotiating with management or clients concerning problems.
 Yes
 No


5.
Does your experience, training and resume support the General Experience criteria below?
Experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with a knowledge of equipment maintenance work, or skill in reading engineering drawings and specifications, using test instruments, making computations, and keeping records. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you possess experience in managing the function of the work to be performed; Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Please read and respond to all the questions below. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


7.
In detail, explain your experience using well-established occupational methods and techniques to determine facility, grounds, equipment overhaul, maintenance, restoration, repair needs, etc.


8.
In detail, explain your experience in determination of resource needs, allocation of resources, and budgeting/funding needs.


9.
In detail, explain your experience in human resources management policy matters affecting the entire organization, with personnel actions affecting key employees to include experience coordinating work forces and resources and negotiating with management or clients concerning problems.


10.
In detail, explain your 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade that provided experience in applying principles, concepts, and methods of equipment, facility, or service operations sufficient in planning assignments.


11.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙