Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13060311-26-VI Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration.

SPF for this position: You must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken Spanish?
 Yes. I am proficient in written and spoken Spanish.
 No. I am not proficient in written and spoken Spanish and I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position in Puerto Rico.


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Pedorthist) position with our San Juan VA Medical Center. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements for this position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement. Full performance level for this position is GS-07.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR Health Technician (Pedorthist). The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Health Technician (Pedorthist) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Credential. Candidate must possess one of the below credentials.
Candidates must be board certified in pedorthist by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and pedorthist (ABC).
OR,
Credentialed in pedorthist by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).-Documentation Submitted
OR,
Exception for Non-Credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist).
Non-credentialed individuals who have successfully completed a Board for Certification in pedorthist (BCP), Commission on Accreditation of Pedorthist Education (CAPE), National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPE), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or American Board for Certification of Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthist (ABC) approved pedorthist certificate program (see Pedorthist Programs) and otherwise meet ABC's eligibility requirements for certification (see Pedorthist Candidate Guide) may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B).
Non-credentialed individuals shall only provide care under the clinical oversight of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or orthotist/prosthetist at or above the full performance level.
Non-credentialed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Please select one of the responses below that best describes how you meet this requirement.

 I am board certified in pedorthist by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthist (ABC).
 I am credentialed in pedorthist by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).
 I meet the exception for non-credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist).
 I do not meet either of the requirements listed above.


Failure to Obtain Certification. In all cases, Health Aid (Pedorthist) must actively pursue meeting requirements for certification starting from the date of their appointment. At the time of appointment, the supervisor will provide the Health Aid (Pedorthist) with the written requirements for certification, including the time by which the certification must be obtained and the consequences for not becoming certified by the deadline. Failure to obtain certification during this time period may result in termination of employment.


Loss of Credential. Management officials, in collaboration with HR Office staff must immediately relieve employees, who fail to maintain the required certification, of the duties and responsibilities associated with this occupation, which may also result in separation from employment.


GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS FOR Health Technician (Pedorthist). The following is used to determine if you meet the grade requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. No assumptions will be made


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-4: Experience: Six months of experience demonstrating knowledge, skills and abilities associated with pedorthist practice equivalent to the next lower grade. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of patient-related psychology, for example age-related competency, patient, and caregiver stressors. (b) Knowledge of foundational sciences related to development of pedorthist treatment, for example anatomy, biomechanics, and pathology. (c) Knowledge of materials science is commonly used in fabrication, for example adhesives, plastics, composites, metals, and leather. (d) Knowledge of regulations and procedures to ensure patient privacy. (e) Ability to assign Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding to pedorthist devices.
Do you possess this experience?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-5: Experience: One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Skill in conducting patient assessments. (b) Skill in developing simple pedorthic devices (includes assessment, measurement, selection, and fitting). (c) Ability to consult with providers and allied health colleagues regarding treatment. (d) Ability to assess device to ensure structural soundness and compliance with prescription and fit.
Do you possess this experience?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-6: Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Skill in developing a follow-up treatment plan for complex pedorthist device types. (b) Ability to process paperwork for pedorthist devices being produced and fitted by vendor. (c) Ability to place administrative orders with procurement staff for treatment modalities. (d) Ability to assess device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription. (e) Ability to process consults/orders.
Do you possess this experience?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-7 : Experience One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-06). Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in designing advanced pedorthist devices.
Skill in assessing device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Skill in written communication.
Skill in oral communication.
Skill in fabrication of all pedorthist device types.
Skill in designing innovative pedorthist devices to include new and emerging technology.

Can you demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities at the GS-07 grade level described above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙