Position Title
Personnel Research Psychologist
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-ELS-12945470-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation, see required documents section. If you fail to select at least one eligibility below or you select an eligibility that you do not provide proof of, your application may be marked INELIGIBLE as out of the area of consideration. The full performance level of this position is GS-13.




1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?  Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Durham, NC
 D. Philadelphia, PA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the following question, please answer Yes or No.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited academic institution leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major or equivalent in psychology? Note: You MUST include documentation or proof with your application that you have met the basic requirement to be determined eligible for consideration.
 Yes
 No


In addition to meeting the Basic Requirement listed above, applicants must have specialized experience to be minimally qualified for this position.


2.
GS-11: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirement listed above, select one response that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirement.
 I have completed all requirements for a Master's degree (or equivalent) in Industrial/Organizational (I/O) Psychology or a related field (e.g., applied, social, or applied social psychology, or organizational development) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required by this position.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. (or equivalent) in I/O Psychology or a related field (e.g., applied, social, or applied social psychology, organizational development) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required by this position.
 I have completed at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the Federal Government GS-9 grade level or pay band. Specialized experience must demonstrate ALL the following: • Drafting and implementing research plans; AND • Conducting multivariate statistical analyses; AND • Assisting in the collection of quantitative and qualitative data using principles, theories, and methods of I/O psychology; AND • Assisting with assessment projects requiring the application of principles, theories, and methods of I/O psychology in organizational settings.
 I have less than the graduate education in "A" or "B" and less than the experience in "C", but I have a combination of the type of education in "A" or "B" and type of experience in "C" totaling 100% of the required qualifications. (To determine the combination, first determine your total number of graduate semester hours, and divide that number by 18. Next, divide the total number of months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, add your percentage of education and experience. The two percentages must total at least 100% for you to qualify based on your combination of education and experience. Only graduate education in excess of one year (i.e., 18 semester hours) may be combined with experience.)
 I do not have the education and/or experience described above and therefore I do not qualify for this position at the GS-11 grade level.


3.
If you answered "C" or "D" in the question above, please identify which position(s) in your resume meets the specialized experience requirement.


4.
GS-12: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirement listed above, select one response that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirement.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. (or equivalent) in Industrial/Organizational (I/O) Psychology or a related field (e.g., applied, social, or applied social psychology, or organizational development) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required by this position.
 I have completed at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the Federal Government GS-11 grade level or pay band, demonstrating ALL the following: (a) Leading/managing part of a project or serving in a primary role on projects involving at least one of the following areas: (i) developing test/assessment tools for selection or promotion consistent with professional and legal requirements (e.g., Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures); OR (ii) conducting job analysis or organizational competency modeling; And (b) Using knowledge of the principles, theories, and methods of I/O psychology or related field (e.g., applied social psychology, applied research/evaluation) to develop practical solutions to assessment problems, including experience with assessment development and validation methods; AND (c) Applying knowledge of statistics and statistical tools (e.g., R, SPSS, Python) to analyze individual or organizational data.
 I have less than the graduate education in "A" and less than the experience in "B", but I have a combination of the type of education in "A" and type of experience in "B" totaling 100% of the required qualifications. (To determine the combination, first determine your total number of graduate semester hours, and divide that number by 18. Next, divide the total number of months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, add your percentage of education and experience. The two percentages must total at least 100% for you to qualify based on your combination of education and experience. Only graduate education in excess of one year (i.e., 18 semester hours) may be combined with experience.
 I do not have the education and/or experience described above and therefore I do not qualify for this position at the GS-12 grade level.


5.
If you answered "B" or "C" in the question above, please identify which position(s) in your resume meets the specialized experience requirement.


Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


6.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙