Position Title
Supervisory Facility Operations Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NOS ONMS-26-12859973-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 07, 2026 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Monterey, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. Santa Barbara, CA
 D. Key Largo, FL
 E. Key West, FL
 F. Honolulu, HI
 G. Silver Spring, MD
 H. Scituate, MA
 I. Alpena, MI
 J. Galveston, TX


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Supervisory Facility Operations Specialist, ZA-1640-5 or equivalent grade level (GS-15) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-4) or GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Overseeing facility operations, including maintenance, safety, space planning, and budget development; Collaborating with senior internal and external stakeholders regarding infrastructure operations; Managing a vessel program, including conducting requirements analysis and acquisition; and Providing technical and administrative oversight to a team of subordinates.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
What should you consider when managing space utilization across a geographically dispersed organization such as ONMS?

 Understand the stakeholders and the types of space is required
 Issuance of Regulations
 Assessment of civil penalties and recovery of damages for violations
 None of the above


2.
Preventive maintenance programs are essential for asset longevity. Which action aligns with effective preventive maintenance planning?

 Conducting maintenance only when equipment breaks down.
 Eliminating maintenance tasks during budget constraints.
 Relying solely on contractor availability to determine schedule.
 Scheduling maintenance based on manufacturer recommendations and facility requirements.


3.
Which of the following should you consider when thinking about integrating new technologies into the workplace?

 Immediately connect telecommunications into the system.
 Make purchase obligations out of the next year's budget for needed items.
 Tag every asset immediately upon receipt with a barcode tag.
 Conduct an analysis of the needs for all stakeholders.


4.
Which action reflects appropriate use of government procurement procedures for facility operations?

 Purchasing supplies from personal vendors for convenience.
 Obtaining multiple quotes and ensuring compliance with acquisition thresholds.
 Using government purchase cards for personal reimbursements.
 Awarding contracts to vendors based on verbal agreements.


5.
What is the first step you should take when prioritizing facility needs and managing deferred maintenance and repair?

 Set up a meeting with the public and begin a community-based process.
 Conduct an inventory verification using the Federal Real Property Profile.
 Begin applying for permits to maintain and repair facilities.
 None of the above.


6.
When developing a small boat recapitalization plan, you should:

 Research federal jurisdiction of state waters.
 Review the Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ) for resource management purposes.
 Analyze studies that extend the outer limit of state waters to a distance of 200 nautical miles offshore.
 Identify the primary and secondary mission requirements.


7.
Which laws prohibit job discrimination and are enforced by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). These laws apply to all federal employees and applicants for federal employment, with a specific process for filing complaints.

 Federal Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
 Anti-Discrimination Act (ADA)
 Equality Act (EA)
 National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA)


8.
As a strategic leader, I should:

 Check in on daily tasks.
 Keep information close hold until the last minute.
 Ensure I maintain stakeholder engagement when planning over multi years.
 Be the expert on all things.


9.
A subordinate constantly misses deadlines. What is the most appropriate supervisory action? Select one.

 Ignore the problem to maintain morale.
 Immediately request removal of the employee.
 Provide coaching, clarify expectations, and document performance issues if they continue.
 Allow other staff to complete the employee’s duties without intervention.


10.
Which action demonstrates effective supervision? Select one.

 Completing all facility tasks personally to ensure quality.
 Delegating tasks based on employee strengths and monitoring workflow progress.
 Allowing employees to determine their own schedules without review.
 Avoiding performance discussions to reduce conflict.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙