Position Title
Review Appraiser
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12952700-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mobile, AL
 AB. Anchorage, AK
 AD. Phoenix, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Los Angeles, CA
 AG. Sacramento, CA
 AH. San Francisco, CA
 AI. Denver, CO
 AJ. Washington, DC
 AK. Jacksonville, FL
 AL. Miami, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Savannah, GA
 AO. Chicago, IL
 AP. Rock Island, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Louisville, KY
 AS. New Orleans, LA
 AT. Baltimore, MD
 AU. Boston, MA
 AV. Concord, MA
 AW. Detroit, MI
 AX. Minneapolis, MN
 AY. Saint Paul, MN
 AZ. Vicksburg, MS
 BA. Kansas City, MO
 B. Saint Louis, MO
 C. Omaha, NE
 D. Albuquerque, NM
 E. Buffalo, NY
 F. Fort Hamilton, NY
 G. New York, NY
 H. Wilmington, NC
 I. Cincinnati, OH
 J. Oklahoma City, OK
 K. Tulsa, OK
 L. Portland, OR
 M. Philadelphia, PA
 N. Pittsburgh, PA
 O. Charleston, SC
 P. Memphis, TN
 Q. Nashville, TN
 R. Austin, TX
 S. Dallas, TX
 T. Fort Worth, TX
 U. Galveston, TX
 V. Draper, UT
 W. Salt Lake City, UT
 X. Norfolk, VA
 Y. Winchester County, VA
 Z. Seattle, WA
 AA. Walla Walla County, WA
 AC. Huntington, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Review Appraiser at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Analyzing data on properties concerning planning, zoning, utilities, taxes, or lease fees for appraisals; AND 2) Preparing narrative appraisal reports which include supportive data or technical analysis; AND 3) Reviewing properties by the income, cost, or comparison methods for appraisals.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Review Appraiser at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Preparing complex and varied appraisals of multiple property types, such as real property in rural, urban, or highly competitive metropolitan areas as a basis for acquisition in fee or lease and disposals; AND 2) Preparing narrative appraisal reports which include supportive data and technical analysis as a result of field and record examination.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙