Position Title
Commercial Sponsorship Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13000100 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.

Which best describes your experience with commercial sponsorship and advertising programs

 I have led a sponsorship and advertising program, developed strategy, secured sponsors, and evaluated program success.
 I have independently managed sponsorship and advertising activities, including finding sponsors, developing proposals, and managing agreements.
 I have assisted with sponsorship or advertising activities.
 I have no experience with commercial sponsorship or advertising programs.


2.

Which best describes your experience negotiating sponsorship agreements and managing contracts?

 

 I have led negotiations for complex agreements and advised others on contract management.
 I have independently negotiated sponsorship agreements, prepared contracts, and ensured contract requirements were met.
 I have assisted with preparing contracts or tracking agreements.
 I have no experience negotiating agreements or managing contracts.


3.

Which best describes your experience promoting programs and building sponsor relationships?

 

 I have led marketing and sponsorship efforts and developed long-term partnerships with sponsors.
 I have independently developed marketing plans, given presentations, and built relationships with sponsors and community partners.
 I have assisted with marketing, presentations, or sponsor communications.
 I have no experience promoting programs or working with sponsors.


4.

Which best describes your experience applying policies and evaluating programs?

 I have served as a subject matter expert on policies, trained others, and led program improvements.
 I have independently interpreted policies, evaluated programs, and prepared reports with recommendations.
 I have followed policies and helped prepare reports or collect information.
 I have no experience applying policies or evaluating programs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙