Position Title
CIVIL ENGINEER
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVK-26-13062902-DH-DK Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Merit Plan Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Civil Engineer position with the Bureau of Reclamation. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. Your resume MUST contain hours worked per week and the dates of employment identified in months and years. If your resume does not contain this information, your application will be marked as incomplete, and you will not receive consideration for this position. You must be clear when describing your experience, we may not make assumptions in determining qualifications. If your resume does not clearly reflect the experience as noted in the vacancy announcement, your application will be marked as ineligible. You must furnish a copy of your transcript of college work completed (unofficial copy is acceptable). Transcripts must include the name of the college or university and date the degree was conferred. Non-submission will result in you being rated not qualified for the position. If a degree is not yet completed but will be by the reporting date, you must in addition to providing transcripts, provide an official letter (on letterhead) from your university's registrar's office indicating your anticipated graduation date. Applicants must meet all qualification requirements, including time-in-grade restrictions, and any selective factors, by the closing date of the announcement.


1.
Choose one answer which best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions.

 I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by my current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by successfully passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science and including engineering courses specified in Choice 2.
 I completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology, or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision.
 I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirement as described.


2.
GS-11: In addition to meeting basic requirements for engineering positions, select the answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is professional experience supporting civil engineering, facility, infrastructure, construction, design, or maintenance projects.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., or I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in engineering or a related field which provided the knowledge, skills and abilities for the position.
 I have the combined specialized experience and education to meet the minimum qualifications for GS- 11.
 I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirements as described above.


3.
GS-12: In addition to meeting basic requirements for engineering positions, select the answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is professional experience managing, leading, coordinating, or serving as a technical representative for civil engineering, facility, infrastructure, construction, design, or maintenance projects.
 I do not meet the experience requirement as described.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided above is true or accurate.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙