Position Title
REGIONAL TRAINING & PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12959530 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience and/or education as it relates to this position. This experience must be documented in your resume and transcripts must be attached to the application.
 I have a four-year bachelor's degree in a related field plus 2 years of specialized subject matter experience directly related to performance and/or service improvement, including hands-on facilitation experience, customer service/relations, performance management, team building, process improvement, organizational behavior, or change management
 I have equivalent experience plus 2 years of specialized subject matter experience directly related to performance and/or service improvement, including hands-on facilitation experience, customer service/relations, performance management, team building, process improvement, organizational behavior, or change management.
 I have non of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you willing and able to travel up to 20% of the time away from your permanent duty station to fulfill the responsibilities of the Regional Training Specialist position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to build collaborative relationships, negotiate solutions, and articulate information clearly to various stakeholders.
 I have a proven track record of building strong collaborative relationships, successfully negotiating solutions, resolving conflicts, and communicating effectively across all levels of leadership and staff.
 I have experience communicating effectively with team members and building positive working relationships.
 I have limited experience in formal business communication, conflict resolution, and relationship building.


4.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in planning, creating, and implementing comprehensive training and performance improvement programs.
 I am considered a subject matter expert in developing training programs from the ground up, maintaining annual schedules, and ensuring courses align closely with organizational goals.
 I have some experience assisting in the development, scheduling, and implementation of training programs.
 I have no experience developing or implementing training programs.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in leading and facilitating training sessions (classroom, virtual, team-building) for diverse audiences.
 A. I have extensive experience (more than 3 years) leading and facilitating both in-person and virtual (vILT) training for varying audience sizes, ranging from small groups to large gatherings of up to 300 employees.
 B. I have some experience (1 to 3 years) leading and facilitating training sessions and managing group dynamics for small to medium-sized groups.
 C. I have no experience in leading or facilitating training sessions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙