Position Title
MRT (Coder)Auditor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTE-13055331-26-AJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Technician (Coder) Auditor position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current qualifications. We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted about missing information or documents. All information and documents are due by the closing date of the announcement.


1.
Citizenship. To qualify for this position, candidates must be a United States citizen. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7407(a))

Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


3.
Experience and Education. Individuals must meet one of the requirements below:

Please select the statement that represents you most accurately.

 Experience. I have one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records.
 Education. I have an associate?s degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR, Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed.
 Experience/Education Combination. I have equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder).
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:
(1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

Please indicate your certification.

 Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 I do not possess the required certification.


Grade Requirements for Medical Records Technician (Coder) Auditor, GS-9


5.
Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder), GS-8.
Do you meet the experience requirement described above?

 Yes
 No


6.
Certification. Employees at this level must have a mastery level certification. Please submit a copy of Certification.
Do you possess a Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC?

 Yes
 No


7.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
- Advanced knowledge of current coding classification systems such as ICD, CPT, and HCPCS for the subspecialty being assigned (outpatient, inpatient, outpatient and inpatient combined).
- Ability to research and solve complex questions related to coding conventions and guidelines in an accurate and timely manner.
- Ability to review coded data and supporting documentation to identify adherence to applicable standards, coding conventions and guidelines, and documentation requirements.
- Ability to format and present audit results, identify trends, and provide guidance to improve accuracy.
- Skill in interpersonal relations and conflict resolution to deal with individuals at all organizational levels.

Do you meet the KSAs described above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙