Position Title
Director, Office of Financial Resources
Agency
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
Announcement Number
HHS-SAMHSA-ES-26-12895801 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government? Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a former career SES member who has completed an SES probationary period and left the SES under circumstances that did not make you ineligible for reinstatement (e.g., poor performance or disciplinary reasons)?
(If yes, must submit a SF-50 showing validation of eligibility for reinstatement)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a SES Candidate Development Program (SCDP) Graduate who was selected through at least civil service-wide competition for the CDP and the QRB has already certified your ECQs?

(If yes, must submit SCDP Certificate validating certification of your ECQs)
 Yes
 No


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience leading enterprise-wide federal financial management and grants operations, including implementation of CFO Act requirements, execution of the full budget lifecycle, and oversight of large, complex grant portfolios supported by financial and grants management systems?


 I have applied federal budget, accounting, auditing, or grants management policies within a defined functional area (e.g., budget execution, accounting operations, or grants monitoring). My experience is primarily operational, and I have not led enterprise-wide financial operations, implemented CFO Act requirements agency-wide, or overseen a large and complex grant portfolio.
 I have led enterprise-wide financial management and grants operations for a large and complex organization. I have implemented CFO Act requirements and related federal financial management reforms; directed the full budget lifecycle across contracts, grants, audits, and execution; and overseen a large, complex grant portfolio spanning formulation, solicitation, award, monitoring, compliance, reporting, and closeout. I have ensured strong internal controls and audit readiness, optimized financial and grants management systems to improve performance and transparency, and regularly advised executive leadership and high-level external officials on budgetary and financial strategy.
 I have led significant components of financial management or grants operations, including aspects of the full budget lifecycle (formulation through execution), oversight of grants (e.g., award, monitoring, compliance), and application of federal financial policies. I have contributed to CFO Act–related activities and ensured internal controls within my area of responsibility. I have experience supervising multidisciplinary teams and communicating financial information to senior leadership.
 I have minimal to no experience performing this task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume and accompanying documentation. I further understand that my resume must meet the two-page format and demonstrate possession of the five ECQ's including evidence of the Professional Technical Qualifications (PTQs) listed in the announcement. I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


6.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙