Position Title
Student Trainee (Clerk/Office Automation)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-MSN-12950690-PP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently a student who has been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate?

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status. Note: you must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-04 Student Trainee (Clerk/Office Automation).
 I have at least one full year of general experience. General experience is defined as progressively responsible clerical, office, automation, or other work that indicates the ability to perform the duties of a student trainee (clerk /office automation). Examples of general experience include: producing, storing, retrieving, and printing documents using word processing hardware and software; sorting, calculating, and retrieving information from electronic databases or spreadsheets to produce reports, charts, and graphs; answering office telephones and referring calls to appropriate staff; sorting, filing and retrieving materials in alphabetical, numerical or chronological order; providing general office clerical support.
 I possess at least two years of education above high school. This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. (One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. To determine if you qualify based on a combination of education and experience, first determine your education as a percentage (e.g., 30 semester hours divided by 60 equals 50%); then determine your experience as a percentage (e.g., 6 months general experience divided by 12 equals 50%); finally, add the two percentages and if the total equals 100% or more, you qualify (e.g., 50% + 50% = 100%).
 I do not have the education or experience as described above.


2.
Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.


3.
Indicate your level of typing proficiency by choosing the appropriate statement below. A typing test may be administered at a later time in the process.
 I type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5-minute sample with three or fewer errors.
 I do not possess the typing skills described in A above.


4.
To be eligible for a student position, you must be at least 16 years of age. Please indicate if you meet this criteria.
 I am at least 16 years old.
 I am 15 years old or younger.


5.
Do you currently possess a grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.5?
 Yes, my current GPA is at least a 2.5.
 No, my current GPA is below 2.5.


6.
Please indicate your current GPA.


7.
Have you received any academic awards or honors (e.g., Dean's List, President's List)?
 Yes
 No


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


8.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


You have submitted your answers for the Assessment Questionnaire. If you provided an email address, you will receive a confirmation email upon receipt of this Assessment Questionnaire. If you are determined to be minimally qualified to apply for this position, you will receive an email from the USA Hire system inviting you to take the required USA Hire Assessments within 24-48 hours. Please be sure to monitor your email inbox and any junk/spam mailboxes. Note: If you have previously completed the required USA Hire assessments for any other federal applications within the past year, you may not be required to complete one or more of the assessments associated with this vacancy announcement. Please review the Vacancy Announcement to assure that you have submitted all necessary supporting documents. Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙