Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGER-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-050504-12995186-TLA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a FINANCIAL MANAGER, NH-0505-04. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of FINANCIAL MANAGER, NH-0505-04. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-13), level, pay band (NH-03), or equivalent (pay schedule, pay band, etc). Specialized experience is described as: is described as (1) developing, coordinating, and maintaining an integrated system of financial staff services including at least accounting, budgeting, and management-financial reporting, and sometimes also one or more of such related staff services as auditing, credit analysis, management analysis, etc.; (2) exercising effective control over the financial resources of the organization; (3) coordinating and synthesizing financial and management data so as to interpret the composite financial results of operations to all levels of the organization's management; (4) advising on, developing, coordinating, and carrying out financial policies, procedures, and plans; (5) reviewing, analyzing, evaluating, and reporting upon program accomplishments in financial terms; and (6) advising and assisting the management officials of the organization served by supplying financial management advice required to make management decisions, establish organizational goals and objectives, and manage the organization.
 I do not have the specialized experience described above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of the position.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙