Position Title
Supervisory Realty Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12925017-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Realty Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Realty Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: 1) Managing the planning or execution of major real estate acquisition, management, or disposal projects; 2) Negotiating legal agreements for the acquisition, management, or disposal of federal real property interests; AND 3) Interpreting or analyzing real estate regulations to perform work related to civil works or military projects.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. -There are no right or wrong answers. -Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. -This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are overseeing a multi-year real estate acquisition program that has fallen behind schedule due to unexpected environmental compliance issues. Your team is requesting additional resources, but your supervisor has indicated budget constraints may limit options. Three critical acquisitions are needed to maintain the overall program timeline, and stakeholders are expressing concern about delays. How do you proceed?

 Focus team efforts on the most straightforward acquisition to demonstrate progress, while simultaneously working with environmental compliance staff to develop solutions for the more complex properties that can be implemented as resources become available.
 Conduct a comprehensive program analysis to identify which acquisitions are most critical to mission success, reallocate existing resources from lower-priority activities, and develop a phased approach that maintains essential milestones while addressing environmental compliance requirements through established Corps procedures.
 Request emergency funding authorization from higher headquarters, emphasizing the critical nature of the program delays, while directing staff to expedite all acquisition activities regardless of the additional environmental compliance requirements.
 Postpone the environmental compliance activities until after the acquisitions are completed, since the program timeline takes precedence over regulatory requirements that can be addressed in post-acquisition phases.
 Meet with your supervisor to present a detailed cost-benefit analysis of the resource needs, propose alternative funding sources or timeline adjustments, and work with environmental specialists to streamline compliance processes while maintaining regulatory adherence.


2.
Your real estate program involves coordinating acquisitions across two states for a major infrastructure project. You discover that one state has implemented new appraisal requirements that could delay acquisitions by six months, while the other state is pressuring for accelerated timelines. Federal partners are requesting status updates, and local communities are expressing concerns about property impacts. What is your approach?

 Request federal intervention to override the new state requirements, arguing that the infrastructure project's national importance should take precedence over local regulatory changes that were not part of the original program planning.
 Proceed with acquisitions using the original appraisal methods in both states, since federal programs should not be subject to changing state requirements that were implemented after program initiation.
 Establish a comprehensive coordination framework that includes regular stakeholder meetings, develop state-specific acquisition strategies that comply with all requirements, create a master schedule that accounts for regulatory differences, and implement proactive communication protocols with all parties.
 Work directly with state officials to understand the new requirements and negotiate reasonable implementation timelines, while developing contingency plans for the affected acquisitions and maintaining transparent communication with federal partners about realistic delivery schedules.
 Focus on accelerating acquisitions in the state without new requirements while working with legal counsel to determine compliance options for the state with new appraisal requirements, keeping stakeholders informed of the bifurcated approach.


3.
New Corps headquarters guidance has been issued that changes the methodology for calculating just compensation in certain acquisition scenarios. This guidance affects three ongoing projects in your program, with one project already having completed appraisals under the previous methodology. Property owners have been notified of the original compensation amounts, and acquisition negotiations are scheduled to begin next week. How do you handle this situation?

 Apply the new guidance to projects that haven't completed appraisals while consulting with legal counsel about the project with completed appraisals, ensuring all stakeholders understand the regulatory requirements and developing a timeline for implementing necessary changes.
 Implement the new guidance on future appraisals while seeking clarification from headquarters about whether the guidance applies retroactively to completed appraisals, maintaining transparency with property owners about potential methodology changes.
 Request an exemption from headquarters for your ongoing projects since changing methodologies mid-process would create administrative burden and potential legal exposure that outweighs the benefits of implementing the new guidance.
 Immediately halt negotiations on all affected projects, conduct a thorough analysis of how the new guidance impacts each acquisition, re-evaluate completed appraisals where necessary, and develop a communication strategy to inform property owners of any changes while ensuring full compliance with the updated methodology.
 Continue with negotiations using the original appraisals since property owners have already been notified, while applying the new guidance only to future projects to avoid confusion and potential legal complications with current negotiations.


4.
During your quality control review of a complex acquisition report prepared by your staff, you identify several areas where the analysis doesn't fully align with recently updated Real Estate Principles and Guidelines. The report supports a high-priority project with an aggressive timeline, and the project manager is requesting immediate approval to proceed with negotiations. The deficiencies are technical in nature but could impact the defensibility of the government's position. What is your course of action?

 Expedite approval of the report since the deficiencies are technical rather than substantive, while noting the issues for future training purposes and ensuring that similar problems are avoided in subsequent reports.
 Meet with the report author to discuss the deficiencies and provide mentoring on the updated guidelines, establish a revised timeline that allows for proper corrections, and communicate with the project manager about the importance of regulatory compliance for long-term project success.
 Return the report to staff with specific guidance on the deficiencies and required corrections, provide technical assistance to ensure proper application of the updated guidelines, and work with the project manager to adjust timelines as necessary to maintain quality and regulatory compliance.
 Approve the report with conditions that require the identified issues to be addressed during the negotiation phase, while providing detailed guidance to staff about the proper application of the guidelines for future reports.
 Approve the report as submitted since the timeline pressures outweigh the technical deficiencies, and the negotiation process will likely resolve any issues that arise from the analytical gaps.


5.
You are managing a major realty project that involves acquiring 50 properties for a flood control initiative. Three months into execution, you discover that 15 properties have title complications that weren't identified during initial planning, environmental surveys have revealed protected species habitat on 8 properties, and local opposition has emerged regarding 12 properties in a historic district. The overall program timeline cannot be extended. How do you manage this situation?

 Proceed with acquisitions on properties without complications while deferring action on problematic properties until after the main program deadline, since partial completion is better than program-wide delays.
 Work with legal counsel to resolve title issues first since they affect the most properties, then address environmental and historic concerns through appropriate regulatory channels, while keeping program leadership informed of potential timeline impacts and mitigation strategies.
 Request additional resources and timeline extensions from program leadership, emphasizing the unforeseen nature of the complications, while directing staff to expedite all acquisition activities to make up time wherever possible.
 Immediately convene a cross-functional team to assess all complications, develop property-specific resolution strategies, create a revised execution plan that prioritizes acquisitions with fewer complications, and establish parallel workstreams to address title, environmental, and historic preservation issues while maintaining program objectives.
 Categorize properties by complexity level and focus initial efforts on straightforward acquisitions to maintain momentum, while simultaneously engaging specialists to develop solutions for complicated properties and working with stakeholders to address community concerns through established consultation processes.


6.
Your real estate project execution is being impacted by three simultaneous issues: a key team member has been reassigned to emergency flood response, appraisal costs are running 20% over budget due to market conditions, and a major property owner is requesting a six-week delay for personal reasons. The project supports a construction start date that cannot be moved. How do you adjust your execution approach?

 Assess the critical path impacts of each issue, redistribute the reassigned team member's workload among remaining staff with appropriate training support, negotiate with the property owner for a shorter delay while exploring alternative properties, and work with contracting to address appraisal cost overruns through existing program flexibility.
 Request the reassigned team member be returned to the project given its critical nature, absorb appraisal cost overruns from other project activities, and inform the property owner that the delay cannot be accommodated due to program requirements.
 Focus remaining team resources on properties that can proceed without delay, seek budget realignment from other program activities to cover appraisal overruns, and document the impacts of staff reassignment for future resource planning.
 Bring in temporary staff or contractor support to cover the reassigned team member's responsibilities, request budget modification to address appraisal cost increases, and work directly with the property owner to understand their constraints while exploring mutually acceptable solutions.
 Continue execution as originally planned since the construction timeline is non-negotiable, directing remaining staff to work overtime to compensate for the reassignment and proceeding with condemnation if the property owner cannot meet the original schedule.


7.
You are monitoring a real estate program with eight active projects, each with different timelines and stakeholder commitments. Monthly reviews show that three projects are ahead of schedule, two are on track, two are experiencing minor delays, and one is significantly behind due to unexpected legal challenges. Stakeholders are requesting detailed status updates, and program leadership needs assurance that overall commitments will be met. What is your monitoring and response approach?

 Continue standard monitoring procedures while developing a recovery plan for the delayed project, leverage the ahead-of-schedule projects to demonstrate overall program progress, and provide stakeholders with balanced reporting that emphasizes positive performance while addressing concerns.
 Focus monitoring efforts primarily on the delayed project since it poses the greatest risk, while allowing ahead-of-schedule projects to continue with minimal oversight to maximize resource efficiency for problem resolution.
 Maintain regular monitoring of all projects while focusing additional attention on the significantly delayed project, work with legal counsel to resolve challenges expeditiously, and provide stakeholders with realistic timeline updates that include contingency planning for various scenarios.
 Increase monitoring frequency for all projects to ensure no additional delays occur, request additional resources specifically for the delayed project, and provide stakeholders with optimistic timelines based on best-case scenario resolution of legal challenges.
 Implement a comprehensive performance dashboard that tracks all projects against commitments, conduct detailed analysis of the delayed project to develop recovery options, reallocate resources from ahead-of-schedule projects if beneficial, and establish enhanced communication protocols with stakeholders that provide transparent, regular updates.


8.
Your real estate program consists of five projects with interdependent milestones. Project A is requesting a budget increase that would require reducing funding for Projects C and D, while Project B has completed early and under budget. Project E is critical path for the overall program but is experiencing cost overruns due to unexpected contamination issues. You need to ensure all projects meet their essential objectives while maintaining overall program success. How do you manage this situation?

 Evaluate the justification for Project A's budget increase against program priorities, use Project B's savings to partially address Project E's overruns, and work with Projects C and D to identify areas where scope or timeline adjustments could accommodate budget reductions without compromising essential objectives.
 Reallocate budgets based on current performance, giving additional funding to projects that are performing well and reducing support for projects experiencing difficulties, since this approach rewards success and encourages improved performance.
 Deny Project A's budget increase to maintain funding for Projects C and D, apply all of Project B's savings to Project E's overruns, and require all projects to absorb any additional costs within their existing budgets to maintain program financial discipline.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of all project interdependencies and budget requirements, reallocate savings from Project B strategically across other projects based on priority and need, work with Project E to develop cost-effective contamination solutions, and adjust non-critical milestones where necessary to maintain overall program objectives.
 Approve Project A's budget increase if it's essential to program success, redirect Project B's savings to cover Project E's contamination costs, and work with Projects C and D to find efficiencies that minimize the impact of budget reductions.


9.
A junior realty specialist has prepared an analysis for a proposed levee project that contains solid technical work but reaches conclusions that don't adequately consider recent changes in local zoning regulations. The specialist is scheduled to present the analysis to project stakeholders tomorrow, including local officials who are very familiar with the zoning changes. You need to provide guidance that ensures accurate analysis while supporting the specialist's professional development. How do you approach this?

 Allow the presentation to proceed as scheduled since the technical work is solid, and address any zoning questions that arise during the stakeholder meeting, using this as a learning experience for the specialist about stakeholder dynamics.
 Take over the presentation preparation to ensure accuracy given the stakeholder audience, while providing the specialist with detailed feedback about the zoning issues for future reference and professional development.
 Provide written feedback highlighting the zoning issues and suggesting revisions, recommend postponing the presentation until the analysis can be updated, and schedule follow-up mentoring to help the specialist understand how to research and incorporate regulatory changes in future analyses.
 Meet with the specialist immediately to review the analysis together, explain how the zoning changes impact the conclusions, provide specific guidance on incorporating the regulatory updates, and work collaboratively to revise the analysis while using this as a mentoring opportunity for future work.
 Schedule an urgent meeting to discuss the zoning regulation impacts, provide the specialist with resources and guidance to update the analysis, and offer to co-present or provide backup support during the stakeholder meeting to ensure accuracy while building the specialist's confidence.


10.
Your team is beginning technical investigations for a complex ecosystem restoration project that will require coordination between real estate, environmental, engineering, and cultural resources specialists. The investigations must support both NEPA compliance and real estate acquisition planning, with different data requirements and timelines for each purpose. Multiple stakeholder agencies have varying expectations for the scope and detail of investigations. How do you provide direction for this effort?

 Direct each specialist group to develop their own investigation plans based on their expertise, require them to coordinate with each other to avoid duplication, and schedule regular progress meetings to monitor overall investigation advancement.
 Convene a multi-disciplinary planning meeting to identify all data requirements and interdependencies, develop an integrated investigation plan that efficiently serves both NEPA and acquisition needs, establish clear coordination protocols between specialists, and create a stakeholder communication strategy that manages expectations while ensuring comprehensive data collection.
 Work with each specialist group to understand their specific data needs, develop a master investigation plan that identifies overlapping requirements and efficient data collection methods, and establish regular coordination meetings to ensure all disciplines remain aligned throughout the investigation process.
 Develop a comprehensive investigation plan that collects all possible data to ensure nothing is missed, since it's better to have too much information than to discover data gaps later in the project development process.
 Create separate investigation plans for NEPA compliance and real estate acquisition to ensure each meets its specific requirements, establish coordination checkpoints between the efforts, and work with stakeholders to clarify their expectations and data needs.


11.
You are participating in a project delivery team meeting where engineering, environmental, and real estate disciplines are discussing a proposed dam safety modification. Engineering needs specific property access for geotechnical investigations, environmental staff has identified potential impacts to endangered species habitat, and real estate has concerns about acquisition timelines affecting construction schedules. The project manager is seeking a coordinated plan of action that addresses all concerns. How do you contribute to this discussion?

 Provide detailed information about real estate acquisition requirements and constraints, support the development of a plan that accommodates engineering needs while working with environmental staff to identify mitigation strategies for habitat concerns.
 Present the real estate timeline constraints and acquisition complexities clearly, actively listen to other disciplines' concerns, identify opportunities for coordinated field work that serves multiple purposes, and collaborate on developing a phased approach that sequences activities to minimize conflicts while meeting all project requirements.
 Advocate strongly for real estate acquisition to proceed immediately before other activities begin, since property access is fundamental to all other project activities and delays in acquisition will impact the entire project schedule.
 Focus primarily on explaining why real estate acquisition timelines cannot be compressed, while supporting whatever plan the project manager develops as long as it provides adequate time for property acquisition activities.
 Explain the real estate acquisition process and timeline implications, ask clarifying questions about engineering and environmental requirements, and propose solutions that integrate real estate activities with other disciplines' field work to maximize efficiency and minimize property owner impacts.


12.
New federal regulations have been issued that significantly change the requirements for relocation assistance calculations, affecting how your staff must approach several ongoing projects. The regulations are complex, with multiple implementation scenarios depending on project type and timing. Your staff has varying levels of experience with relocation issues, and some are expressing confusion about how to apply the new requirements. How do you provide guidance on these changes?

 Schedule team meetings to review the new regulations together, provide detailed explanations of how they apply to current projects, create reference materials that staff can use for future application, and establish regular check-ins to address questions and ensure consistent implementation.
 Organize a comprehensive training session that explains the new regulations with practical examples, develop written guidance that translates the regulations into step-by-step procedures for different project scenarios, establish a mentoring system pairing experienced and newer staff, and create a process for ongoing questions and clarification as implementation proceeds.
 Forward the new regulations to all staff with instructions to review them carefully, schedule a brief meeting to answer initial questions, and direct staff to consult with you before making any decisions that involve the new requirements.
 Distribute the new regulations with a summary of key changes, hold a briefing session to explain the most important impacts, and make yourself available for individual consultation as staff encounter specific application questions on their projects.
 Provide staff with the new regulations and direct them to implement the changes immediately, since federal employees are expected to understand and apply regulatory updates as part of their professional responsibilities.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙