Position Title
Supervisory Intelligence Specialist (Operations Support)
Agency
U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command
Announcement Number
DAST-26-12956203-DCIPS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Army Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) Employee

Do you meet the following?
current Department of the Army DCIPS employee; and
occupy a permanent position without time limitation.
Supporting documentation:  You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action that reflects "1" or "2" in block 24 (Tenure), "2" in block 34 (Position Occupied), and, if applicable, your highest grade held on a permanent basis along with your application/resume package.

To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This is a Title 10 Excepted Service position covered by the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS). Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a DCIPS position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a two year trial period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V2005. While serving a trial period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year trial period?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙