Position Title
Marine Machinery Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13051890-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


COEs
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 50 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Marine Machinery Mechanic position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Marine Machinery Mechanic, XF-5334-11.

 I have experience without close technical supervision performing operations maintenance and repair work including electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and welding projects for equipment, fuel, sewage, HVAC, potable water, hydraulic, electrical systems, vessels, and vehicles in accordance with established trade standards. I have experience making major and operating repairs of all engine room machinery and auxiliary equipment, such as 1,400 H.P. diesel main propulsion engines, with attached reduction gears, 90 KW generators, 45 KW generator and 360 hp diesels hydraulic deck mounted knuckle boom 20 ton max cap. I have experience operating hydraulic knuckle boom cranes with max capacity of 20 tons to perform critical lifts. I have independently performed and led drift collection operation duties to include transferring floating debris, securing large debris for tow, interpreting and utilizing measurement instruments and/or nautical charts for land and sea, and safely operating rigs, winches, pike poles, etc. I am consulted by other journeypersons and subordinates in difficult situations.
 I have experience at a journeyman level performing operations maintenance and repair work including electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and welding projects for equipment, fuel, sewage, HVAC, potable water, hydraulic, electrical systems, vessels, and vehicles in accordance with established trade standards. I have experience making major and operating repairs of all engine room machinery and auxiliary equipment, such as 1,400 H.P. diesel main propulsion engines, with attached reduction gears, 90 KW generators, 45 KW generator and 360 hp diesels hydraulic deck mounted knuckle boom 20 ton max cap.
 I have performed work on electrical, mechanical, plumbing, carpentry, painting, and welding projects for equipment, systems (e.g. fuel, sewage, HVAC, potable water, hydraulic, electrical, etc.), vessels, and vehicles. I have performed work on engine room machinery and auxiliary equipment.
 I have experience under direct supervision performing operations maintenance and repair work including electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and welding projects for equipment, fuel, sewage, HVAC, potable water, hydraulic, electrical systems, vessels, and vehicles in accordance with established trade standards.
 My training or experience is not reflected in the above statements but I am willing to learn.


2.
Your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙