Position Title
Sr Financial Management Specialist (TL)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DEIMP-13031411-26-BG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Arlington, TX


Assessment 1
1.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent. To include Specialized experience includes extensive knowledge and experience in managing and overseeing agency-wide travel programs, including foreign travel, premium travel, and the GSA SmartPay Card Program. Demonstrated ability to develop, implement, and administer travel-related regulations, policies, standards, and procedures in compliance with Federal Travel Regulations (FTR), General Services Administration (GSA) guidelines, and other federal policies. Proven track record in providing expert advice and assistance to management and customers regarding appropriation law, administrative control of funds, financial management, and federal travel regulations. Skilled in authorizing official travel, reviewing and approving travel vouchers, and ensuring compliance with agency and federal guidelines. Experience in leading teams and facilitating process improvements to optimize travel operations. Candidates must also have specialized experience performing financial transactions in the agency core financial system (FAIMIS), including: recording accounting transactions; reconciling accounts; preparing reports; analyzing internal controls; and reviewing, analyzing and resolving a variety of issues.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙