Position Title
FOOD SERVICE WORKER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-535 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sunday, November 16, 2025 to Sunday, November 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.

I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 45 pounds.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Food Service Worker position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.



1.
Choose the statement that best describes your training, education, and/or experience related to this position. (Resume provided must reflect experience, must provide proof of training, and/or provide proof of education (official transcripts))
 Work experience that provided you the ability to perform multiple food service tasks (setting up counters, serving food, making coffee, salads, sandwiches, etc.); AND knowledge of sanitation procedures; AND ability to follow oral and written instructions. (Resume must reflect experience)
 Education that provided you the ability to perform multiple food service tasks (setting up counters, serving food, making coffee, salads, sandwiches, etc.); AND knowledge of sanitation procedures; AND ability to follow oral and written instructions. (Must provide official transcripts)
 Training that provided you the ability to perform multiple food service tasks (setting up counters, serving food, making coffee, salads, sandwiches, etc.); AND knowledge of sanitation procedures; AND ability to follow oral and written instructions. (Must provide proof of training)
 None of the statements apply to me


2.
Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has work experience that requires a comprehensive knowledge of food and sanitation principles. Consistently applies these principles in all aspects of food handling and preparation. Identifies and corrects potential hazards proactively. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has work experience that requires a strong working knowledge of food safety and sanitation procedures. Consistently applies these procedures in daily tasks. Can identify and report potential hazards. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has work experience that requires a basic understanding of food safety and sanitation procedures. Generally applies these procedures under supervision. Requires reminders and guidance. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has over 5 years of full time work experience in preparing and serving food.
 Has 3 to 5 years of full time work experience in preparing and serving food.
 Has 1 to 3 years of full time work experience in preparing and serving food.
 None of the statements apply to me.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙