Position Title
Field Unit Local Hiring Authority (FUL) Budget Analyst
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-EVER-26-12994060-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Do you reside in the defined local commuting area of Everglades National Park?  This is defined as having a permanent and exclusive residence within Collier, Monroe, Miami- Dade, Broward and Palm Beach Counties. If you select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION SECTION: It is important that your application package submitted, including a resume or application form, clearly shows how you possess the experience and skills levels you claim in this questionnaire. Each of your responses must be clearly supported by your education, training, and/or specific work experience you describe in your application packet submitted for this position (application form or resume, transcripts, list and description of training completed, and/or other items you submit). If not, your score will be lowered, or you will be found not qualified. The information you provide will be verified. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for rating you ineligible, not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for a Budget Analysis, GS-0560-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your application materials must support the answers you claim in this assessment. If not, you will be found not qualified or your score will be lowered.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of a Budget Analysis, GS-0560-07. Specialized experience is defined as experience directly related to the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience for this position include: assisting in developing budget and program planning; assisting in auditing and reprogramming accounts; performing finance and budget work using automated spreadsheet programs or automated financial systems; preparing trend analysis by identifying areas of concern to management.
 One full academic year of graduate education related to the occupational level of studies in directly-related fields such as advising, and interpreting financial policies, laws, and other financial guidance, performing budget formulation, and budget execution. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I have an Equivalent Combination of Graduate Education and Specialized Experience: I equivalent combination of such education and experience. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 36 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Budget Analyst, GS-0560-09. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 level or equivalent for this position. Specialized experience is defined as experience directly related to the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes: Use of accounting systems to execute financial transactions. Extracting data from financial systems to prepare reports and analyses. Interpreting data in financial systems to identify status of transactions, identify problems, and develop resolutions. Use of financial systems to determine balances of funds and accounts. Working with customers to develop solutions to financial or budget problems. Applying knowledge of organizational structure, programs and work methods to determine whether estimates of funding needs and requests for allotments are in line with program plans. Assisting in providing guidance for content and format for submission of estimates and requests for funding needs. Under direct guidance, assist in developing methods and techniques of budgeting for annual and multiyear funds to ensure planning and continuance of major projects. Prepare reports for status of funds review and provide balances to inform program managers of spending trends and availability of resources. You must include hours per week worked on your resume.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have equivalent combinations of education and experience as described above that meets 100% of the requirements for this position.
 I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙