Position Title
Medical Transportation Technician - Paramedic
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12926109-26-EAE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


FOUR Selective Placement Factors (SPF) have been identified for this position. Selective Placement Factors (SPF) are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for the position. Applicants who do not meet the SPF are ineligible for further consideration.


2.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: Medical Care Transportation Technician - Paramedic must possess and maintain current Basic Life Support Provider (BLS) Certification. I possess this certification. (Certificate required during interview.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: Medical Care Transportation Technician - Paramedic must possess and maintain current Advanced Cardiac Life Support Provider Certification. I possess this certification. (Certificate required during interview.)
 Yes
 No


4.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: Medical Care Transportation Technician - Paramedic must possess a valid/current state issued license/certification for eligibility for employment (Paramedic). I possess this certification. (Certificate required during interview.)
 Yes
 No


5.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: I possess a valid state driver's license. (DO NOT provide driver's license. We do not accept pictures.) (License required during interview.)
 Yes
 No


6.
In addition to the English Language Proficiency and Selective Placement Factors above, to qualify for this position at the GS-09 grade level, you must meet one of the following qualification requirements. Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience and/or education to meet the qualification requirements for this position.

 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: I have at least (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-08) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Medical Care Transportation Technician -Paramedic. Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes knowledge of a majority of body systems, i.e., skeletal, muscular, nervous, respiratory, circulatory, digestive, and genitourinary, to perform patient examination; responding to accidents and other emergencies involving injury and/or illness which may be life-threatening and require basic life support procedures; experience providing transportation of patients to medical treatment facilities; using communication equipment and techniques to accurately obtain and relay information to and from dispatchers and health care providers; knowledge of protocols and treatments used in the delivery of emergency care for persons injured in chemical, nuclear, biological, and hazardous materials incidents; and experience operating emergency or patient transport vehicles.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED): I have successfully completed two (2) full years of graduate education or a Master's degree directly related to the work of this position. This education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED): I have equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education (in excess of one year) and experience, described above, to meet total qualification requirements.
 I do not have the experience or education as described in any of the above.


VETERAN'S PREFERENCE DOCUMENTATION REMINDER - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Transportation competency (Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including costs and limits.).


1.
Task: Transport patients in need of Advance Life Support level care to and from various locations including inter-facility transport.
During an inter-facility transport of a patient receiving a continuous Dobutamine infusion via a syringe pump, the Paramedic's most critical action is to ensure:

 The ambulance route is the quickest possible, regardless of road conditions.
 The primary focus of documentation is the patient's insurance information.
 The pump is secured, the IV site is frequently monitored, and communication protocols are established with the sending and receiving facilities regarding the infusion parameters.
 The infusion is paused for 30 minutes to allow the patient to rest comfortably.


2.
Task: Operates or utilizes various vehicles and emergency/medical equipment, tools and supplies which may include ambulance, blood pressure cuff, glucose monitor, AED, 12 lead EKG, non-invasive airway equipment, oxygen administration devices pulse oximetry monitor, medical supplies, radio communications equipment and general office equipment.
In managing a patient experiencing chest pain consistent with an acute myocardial infarction (AMI), the essential use of advanced diagnostic equipment required by a Paramedic is the:

 Pulse Oximetry monitor, which gives the clearest indication of AMI severity.
 12-lead EKG, which must be performed, interpreted, and transmitted to the receiving facility for definitive care preparation.
 Automated External Defibrillator (AED) to deliver immediate prophylactic shocks.
 Glucose monitor to rule out hypoglycemia as the sole cause of the chest pain.


3.
Task: Prioritizes transports for patients and employs a variety of established techniques, methods and equipment during transport to the appropriate medical facility.
A Paramedic receives three concurrent calls: 1) A patient in cardiac arrest; 2) A stable inter-facility transfer; 3) A patient with a minor ankle injury. Applying sound prioritization principles, which patient is designated as the highest priority transport?

 The patient in cardiac arrest, as they require immediate and definitive Advanced Life Support (ALS) interventions and transport to a facility capable of post-resuscitation care.
 The stable inter-facility transfer, as this was scheduled prior to the other emergency calls.
 The patient with the minor ankle injury, because the scene is closest to the Paramedic's current location.
 The inter-facility patient, but only after they are given a comprehensive physical examination.


4.
Task: Assist in transporting non-ambulatory patients, as directed, and ensure all safety protocols for these particular patient groups are followed throughout the transport.
To safely transport a non-ambulatory patient who is prone to seizures, the Paramedic should prioritize:

 Loosely strapping the patient to the stretcher to allow them to move freely during a potential seizure.
 Securing the patient to the stretcher with appropriate restraints and padding the area around the head to prevent injury during a potential seizure.
 Having the patient sit upright in the stretcher with a single lap belt across their stomach.
 Transporting the patient without any restraints since they are non-ambulatory.


The following statements pertain to the Clinical Data Collection/Documentation competency (Gathers/documents essential and accurate information about patients such as medical history, vital signs, chief complaints, allergies, pertinent health problems, current medications.).


5.
Task: Performs assessments to obtain history, status of patient's neurological system, cardiovascular system, circulatory system, skeletal system, orthopedic system, motor and sensory skills and level of consciousness for the purpose of safe transport.
During the assessment of a patient with suspected stroke, which finding is the most critical to document accurately for the purpose of safe and effective transport to a stroke center?

 The patient's favorite color and hobbies, to build rapport.
 The exact time of the onset of symptoms (Last Known Well time) and the current score on a validated stroke scale (e.g., Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale).
 Only the patient's blood pressure, as hypotension is the sole determinant of stroke severity.
 The fact that the patient has a remote history of a head injury 20 years ago.


6.
Task: Perform patient triage and take/records patient's vital signs as needed.
In a Mass Casualty Incident (MCI) requiring immediate patient triage, a Paramedic assesses a victim who is breathing 8 times per minute, has no palpable radial pulse, and does not follow simple commands. Using the START triage method, the patient should be categorized as:

 DELAYED (Yellow), because their breathing is still present.
 MINOR (Green), because their injuries are likely minor despite the altered mental status.
 IMMEDIATE (Red), because they have an uncontrolled bleed.
 IMMEDIATE (Red), due to the inadequate respiratory rate and circulatory status indicating a life-threatening compromise.


7.
Task: Provide and gather information on the human body structure, function, illnesses and diseases, and the treatment procedure supporting patient charting.
A Paramedic is treating a patient experiencing severe shortness of breath due to an exacerbation of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF). The essential physiological finding that must be documented is:

 The presence of bilateral basilar rales (or crackles), indicating fluid backup in the alveoli due to left-sided heart failure.
 The patient's skin is warm and dry, indicating a healthy dermatological system.
 The heart rate is exactly 60 beats per minute, which is the ideal rate for CHF.
 The patient's chief complaint is vague and should be ignored for the sake of efficiency.


The following statements pertain to the Patient Care competency (Knowledge of direct patient care techniques, including activities of daily living (ADLs), ambulating patients, infection control, and emergency response; uses appropriate safety precautions.).


8.
Task: Cleans and sanitizes all reusable equipment and ensures all disposable equipment is disposed of in the appropriate manner. Follows facility infections control guidelines.
After treating a patient with known Tuberculosis (TB) in the back of the ambulance, the Paramedic's highest priority infection control task concerning equipment is to:

 Store the patient's charts and paperwork next to the clean linens.
 Follow MTF guidelines for the disposal of N95 respirators and biohazardous waste, and use a hospital-grade disinfectant to clean and sanitize all reusable equipment surfaces, specifically noting TB exposure.
 Rinse the used equipment with plain water and immediately return it to the storage compartment.
 Only clean the stretcher and leave the equipment compartments untouched.


9.
Task: Conducts patient assessments, to ensure safe of vehicle transport. Conducts examination of the patient's condition to determine the need for assistance when entering and exiting the vehicle.
Before moving a geriatric patient from their residence to the ambulance, the Paramedic determines the patient has a history of left-sided weakness (hemiparesis). To ensure safe transport, the Paramedic must:

 Allow the patient to ambulate independently to encourage activity.
 Conduct a focused assessment of their motor skills and balance, and then use a mechanical or manual assist device (e.g., stair chair, draw sheet, or partner lift) while supporting the weak side.
 Strap the patient to a long spine board regardless of injury to prevent any movement.
 Insist that the patient walk and use their weak side to bear the majority of the weight.


10.
Task: Understand indications, dosing, and administer oral, intramuscular, and intravenous medications.
A standing order protocol requires the Paramedic to administer 0.4 mg of Nitroglycerin (NTG) sublingually to a patient experiencing chest pain, provided the patient's systolic blood pressure (SBP) is above 100 mmHg. The patient's SBP is 92 mmHg. The Paramedic should:

 Administer the NTG sublingually as prescribed, but immediately repeat the dose since the SBP is low.
 Withhold the NTG and immediately contact Medical Direction for alternative orders, as the current SBP is a contraindication for the medication.
 Administer the NTG intramuscularly (IM) instead, as the absorption is faster.
 Wait 10 minutes and then recheck the blood pressure, ignoring the standing order.


The following statements pertain to the Emergency Care competency (Recognizes signs of medical emergencies; applies knowledge of basic first-aid principles in responding to emergency situations.).


11.
Task: Conducts or assists with the training of personnel in CPR, basic and advanced emergency medical care techniques.
When teaching a new employee about high-quality CPR, the Paramedic emphasizes that the most critical element for maximizing coronary perfusion pressure is to:

 Ensure full chest wall recoil after each compression and minimize interruptions to compressions to less than 10 seconds.
 Deliver compressions at a slow rate of exactly 60 compressions per minute.
 Focus solely on delivering ventilations every 2 seconds.
 Apply counter-pressure on the patient's abdomen during compressions.


12.
Task: Administers Basic and Advanced Life Support care in accordance with established medical standards, which may include providing CPR, manual defibrillation, synchronized cardioversion, and transcutaneous pacing manual defibrillation and/or medications. Provides respiratory care, including intubation and ventilation management.
A patient presents with a wide-complex tachycardia at a rate of 170 beats per minute, is alert but hypotensive (SBP < 90 mmHg). Per established ACLS protocols, the Paramedic's most immediate and appropriate intervention is:

 Immediately administer 6mg of Adenosine via a rapid IV push.
 Prepare for and deliver immediate synchronized cardioversion to address the unstable tachycardia and hypotension.
 Provide high-flow oxygen and wait for the patient's heart rate to spontaneously decrease.
 Begin Transcutaneous Pacing (TCP) at a rate of 70/min.


13.
Task: Respond to on-campus emergency calls and provide advanced life support to patients in concordance with established protocols.
Upon arrival at a scene, a patient is found unresponsive, pulseless, and apneic. The rhythm strip shows ventricular fibrillation (V-Fib). Which action is the highest priority per ALS protocols?

 Immediately defibrillating the patient, followed by 2 minutes of high-quality CPR and then establishing vascular access (IV/IO).
 Establishing an advanced airway (e.g., endotracheal tube) before performing any compressions.
 Administering 1 mg of Epinephrine intravenously (IV) immediately upon arrival.
 Waiting for the physician to arrive on campus before initiating any treatment.


The following statements pertain to the First Response competency (Knowledge of emergency management methods, such as first aid, rescue techniques, and threat assessments.).


14.
Task: Respond to on-site accidents and other emergencies involving injury and illnesses, sometimes encountering situations which may be life threatening.
In a scene involving a potential hazardous material (HazMat) leak where the extent of the danger is unknown, the Paramedic's highest priority action upon arrival, reflective of threat assessment, is:

 Immediately rushing to the victim to begin treatment, as patient care is always the first priority.
 Ensuring scene safety by maintaining a safe distance (hot zone recognition) and immediately calling for specialized HazMat teams and additional resources.
 Donning standard surgical gloves and approaching the scene cautiously to conduct a sniff test.
 Using the ambulance siren continuously to warn off bystanders.


15.
Task: Determine and prioritizes appropriate medical treatment/procedures and need for additional assistance.
A 45-year-old male is choking and is now unresponsive. The Paramedic has successfully attempted chest thrusts and abdominal thrusts without dislodging the obstruction. The next priority medical procedure is to:

 Call for a physician for advice.
 Initiate chest compressions and visualize the airway for the foreign body, attempting to remove it only if seen, per BLS/ALS guidelines for a foreign body airway obstruction (FBAO).
 Apply a non-rebreather mask at 15 LPM oxygen and wait for spontaneous resolution.
 Attempt to forcefully ventilate the patient, regardless of obstruction.


16.
Task: Make an independent preliminary assessment of the patient's condition and select from a variety of prescribed protocols the one that is considered appropriate under the given circumstances.
A patient presents with altered mental status, generalized muscle weakness, and a history of pesticide exposure. The Paramedic determines the likely cause is organophosphate poisoning (a nerve agent). Based on independent assessment and protocol selection, the Paramedic should primarily administer:

 Dextrose and a B-vitamin complex.
 Atropine and 2-PAM chloride (Pralidoxime), per chemical exposure/nerve agent protocols, which directly address the toxicological effects.
 High-flow oxygen and transport without further intervention.
 Oral charcoal immediately, regardless of the patient?s mental status.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙