Position Title
Visual Information Specialist
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12945537-X Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-14 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service, or equivalent, which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:
-Leading  the development and production of visual information products for print and digital platforms, such as infographics, charts, maps, illustrations, and interactive content, to effectively communicate complex information to diverse audiences; AND
-Planning, coordinating, and executing visual communication strategies, including establishing priorities, allocating resources, and ensuring the timely delivery of high-quality products; AND
-Applying principles of information design, data visualization, and graphic design, using industry-standard tools (e.g., Adobe Creative Suite), to enhance clarity, usability, and impact of products; AND
-Leading day-to-day operations of a visual design or production function, including coordinating workflow, addressing stakeholder requirements, and resolving issues in a dynamic, mission-driven environment (e.g., Intelligence Community or similar setting).


1.
GS-14: Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). (250 Character Limit)


Specialized Experience for the GS-13 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service, or equivalent, which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:
- Coordinating and producing visual information products for print and digital platforms, such as infographics, charts, maps, illustrations, and page layouts, to effectively communicate information to intended audiences; AND
- Planning and coordinating the development and use of visual materials to support communication needs, ensuring accuracy, consistency, and timely delivery; AND
- Applying principles of information design, data visualization, and graphic design, using industry-standard tools (e.g., Adobe applications), to create clear and effective visual products for print and web-based formats; AND
- Providing guidance and recommendations to stakeholders or customers on visual communication approaches, products, and services.


3.
GS-13: Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). (250 Character Limit)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙