Position Title
Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
313-13033949-26-AG-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Baltimore, MD


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for applying for the Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, GS-0101-14. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


This vacancy is opened ONLY to Agency Employees (Department of Veterans Affairs) and T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for the Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, GS-0101-14.
 I am currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 My status is not described in any of the options above and therefore I am ineligible because I am NOT in the Area of Consideration (AOC).


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP/ICTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (Not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.


2.
GS-14: Have you held a position within the federal government at the GS-13 level for a minimum of 52 weeks?

 Yes.
 No and therefore I am not eligible.


3.
You must meet the basic requirements and have one year of specialized experience or equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-13) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. From the descriptions below, please select only one response that best describes the level of experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of a Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, GS-0101-14 level.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for positions in the 0101 series, candidates must meet the following basic requirements:

Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.

OR

Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

OR

Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

OR

Specialized experience: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level that demonstrates:

Expertise with employment and vocational rehabilitation programs.
Possessing knowledge and expertise in the procedures for vocational and rehabilitation law.
Expertise to administer and counsel in the areas of counseling, rehabilitation, psychology, career development, and job placement entitlements.
Expertise to control budgetary resources for approving and monitoring financial expenditures.
 I have met the specialized experience that is stated above in the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR).
 I have successfully completed graduate education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position.
 have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least two years. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 I do not have the education or specialized experience as described in either "A" or "B" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


5.
Specialized experience: In addition to meeting the IOR above, the following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.  

Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level that demonstrates:
Expertise with employment and vocational rehabilitation programs.
Possessing knowledge and expertise in the procedures for vocational and rehabilitation law.
Expertise to administer and counsel in the areas of counseling, rehabilitation, psychology, career development, and job placement entitlements.
Expertise to control budgetary resources for approving and monitoring financial expenditures.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-07, in the normal line of progression for the position.
 I have earned a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least two years. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 I do not have the specialized experience or education as described in "A", "B", or "C" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙