Position Title
Bar Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12885082 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
Physical demands include, but not limited to lifting, standing, bending and reaching primarily while stocking and performing duties of bartending.

Are you able to meet these physical requirements?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Bar Manager position with the Food & Beverage Department. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All answers must be verifiable via your resume. If qualifying based on education, transcripts and/or diploma must be included.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your education/experience.
 I have at least 2 years of specialized experience in the food and beverage industry.
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college in a related field such as Hospitality Management, Restaurant Management, or Business Administration
 I have a combination of post-high school education and experience.
 I do not have any of the education/experience mentioned above.


2.
What is your level of experience with inventory management, stock control, and recipe costing?
 I have 3+ years of experience with inventory management, stock control, and recipe costing.
 I have 1 - 3 years of experience with inventory management, stock control, and recipe costing.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with inventory management, stock control, and recipe costing.
 I do not have any experience with inventory management, stock control, and recipe costing.


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience with financial management, budgeting, and cost analysis for a food & beverage operation.
 I have 3+ years of experience with budgeting, cost analysis, or developing income/expense reports.
 I have 1 - 3 years of experience with budgeting, cost analysis, or developing income/expense reports.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with budgeting, cost analysis, or developing income/expense reports.
 I do not have any experience with budgeting, cost analysis, or developing income/expense reports.


4.
Which statement best reflects your experience with staff supervision, training, and performance management in a bar setting?
 I have 3+ years of experience with staff supervision, training, and performance management in a bar setting.
 I have 1 - 3 years of experience with staff supervision, training, and performance management in a bar setting.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with staff supervision, training, and performance management in a bar setting.
 I do not have any experience with staff supervision, training, and performance management in a bar setting.


5.
Select the answer that best describes your experience in menu planning, development, and pricing?
 I have 3+ years of experience in menu planning, development, and pricing.
 I have 1 - 3 years of experience in menu planning, development, and pricing.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in menu planning, development, and pricing.
 I do not have any experience in menu planning, development, and pricing.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙