Position Title
WOC- Research Health Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARX-13035209-26-JA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Staffing: Part I, Chapter 3, Section A, pre-employment reference checks are an assessment method used in the hiring and selection process to verify the information provided by an internal or external candidate, gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities, and assist a hiring official with making a final selection for a position.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, position title, organization, telephone number, and email address of at least 3 professional references. One of these references must be a current or previous supervisor within the previous three years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted. By providing this information and submitting your application, you are consenting to Human Resources Staff and/or Hiring Managers contacting your references.

If a supervisory reference is not available, candidates may provide an alternate or additional reference from a professional source, such as a co-worker, professor, or other individual who has directly observed your work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, etc.

If a candidate does not grant permission to conduct reference checks with current/former supervisors or a hiring official is unable to reach at least one supervisory reference, and the candidate is unable to provide any alternative references, a hiring official must document and communicate the lack of acceptable references to the HR staff. A hiring official must consider the lack of acceptable references as a factor during the selection process if they were unable to verify work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, and so forth. A hiring official must cease selection consideration of that candidate.

Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience, that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If using education to qualify, you MUST submit an official or unofficial transcript. From the responses below, select ONE response that best describes how you met the basic requirements for this position. Note: Experience/Education MUST be substantiated in your resume or transcripts. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirement: All qualified applicants must meet this basic requirement for a Research Health Technician, 0640.

Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled.

OR

Education and Training: Successful completion of l year of study that included study in medical, health, or related fields.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have the following Specialized experiences to qualify for the position?
Experience in clinical research coordination experience, knowledge of Good Clinical Practice (GCP), IRB and VA research requirements.
Experience in recruitment and regulatory documentation, and coordinate multidisciplinary clinical research studies.
Experience in Sleep Apnea Study.
In depth knowledge of medical terminologies.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙