Position Title
Student Trainee (Office Automation) - Environmental Enforcement Section
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-059-EXC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you applying under the Pathways Internship Program
The Internship Program replaces the Student Career Experience Program (SCEP) and Student Temporary Employment Program (STEP). This Program is designed to provide students enrolled in a wide variety of educational institutions, from high school to graduate level, with opportunities to work in agencies and explore Federal careers while still in school and while getting paid for the work performed. Students who successfully complete the program may be eligible for conversion to a permanent job in the civil service. Additional information about the Internship Program can be found at USAJOBS (external link). Here are some key provisions of the Internship Program.

Eligibility
Current students in an accredited high school, college (including 4-year colleges/universities, community colleges, and junior colleges); professional, technical, vocational, and trade school; advanced degree programs; or other qualifying educational institution pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate. For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources...

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status.
Note: You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Are you currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a degree seeking student taking at least a half-time academic, technical, or vocational course load in an accredited high school, technical, vocational, 2 or 4 year college or university, graduate or professional school? You must provide current proof of enrollment for the upcoming school semester.
 Yes, I am.
 No, I am not.


2.
What is your most current cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA)?
 4.0 or equivalent
 3.5-3.99 or equivalent
 3.0-3.49 or equivalent
 2.5-2.99 or equivalent
 2.0-2.49 or equivalent
 1.99 or below


3.
Select the response that best describes your expected date of graduation.
 This year
 Before December 2027
 On or after December 2027
 None of the above


4.
How many hours per week are you able to commit to this position?

 1-9 hours per week
 10-19 hours per week
 20-29 hours per week
 30-40 hours per week


5.
Please select the response below that best describes your education or experience which would qualify for a Student Trainee (Office Automation), GS-4.
 I possess at least two years of post-high school education at an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college or university.
 I have completed at least 1 year of general experience. General experience is progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the work of this position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements.
 I do not possess the education or experience described above.


6.
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your typing skills. Select only one response.
 I type at least 40 words per minute.
 I type less than 40 words per minute.
 None of the above.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙