Position Title
Supervisory Police Officer (Lieutenant)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-ORS-IMP-26-12890488 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you currently work at the National Institutes of Health (NIH)? If so, you may be eligible to apply to this vacancy announcement.
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent NIH employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility, access eOPF and open your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50):  Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."  If you are still unsure of your eligibility, contact the individual listed in the vacancy announcement for assistance.  
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package, before the announcement closes.  You can obtain a copy from eOPF.  
Select "Yes" to this eligibility question. 
Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as an NIH Employee?  If you work at NIH, select "Yes", submit the required documentation, and we will make the determination for you.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Police Officer (Lieutenant) GS-0083-11 position at our agency. The following items refer to the qualifications specified in the job announcement. Please be sure to read the instructions carefully and answer the questions to the best of your ability


1.
Choose the answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for a Supervisory Police Officer (Lieutenant), GS-0083-11, position as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks:1) Performing law enforcement duties that deal with investigating, apprehending, and detaining persons suspected of criminal law offenses; 2) providing guidance on law enforcement and security polices and procedures; 3) performing various administrative functions to include reviewing and preparing police activity reports and correspondences; and 4) supervising and providing guidance/direction to law enforcement personnel at various levels on duties.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


Accomplishment Record Instructions for Applicants As the next step in the application process, you are invited to complete the Accomplishment Record (AR) portion of your application. This assessment is designed to gather examples of your past experience that reflect the critical competencies required for the position. The AR is based on Selective Evaluation (SE) statements that were developed and validated by Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) currently serving in the same role. These prompts are tailored to assess performance relevant to the responsibilities and qualifications at the GS-11 level


What You Need to Do You will be asked to respond to four prompts, each representing a critical competency needed for this vacancy announcement. For each prompt: -Provide one specific example from your professional experience. -Use the guiding questions to develop a comprehensive response. You are not required to answer them in bullet or list form, but your narrative should address each aspect to ensure a strong and complete example. -Your response should be a narrative that clearly communicates what you did, how you did it, and what the outcome was.


Response Format -Character limit: Up to 2500 characters per response. -Style: Use full sentences and narrative form. -Structure: We recommend using the STAR format (Situation, Task, Action, Result) to organize your response clearly and effectively.


Important Notes - Your AR responses must be written solely by you. Do not use AI (e.g., ChatGPT or similar tools) or receive assistance from others in drafting or refining your narratives. -Do not include confidential or proprietary information in your responses. -Responses are evaluated based on the level of responsibility, complexity, and results demonstrated, aligned with the grade and position. Tips for Success -Choose real, past examples avoid hypothetical scenarios. -Avoid vague generalizations-focus on what you did and the specific results of your actions. -If discussing a team effort, highlight your individual role and contributions. -Think about the results: What changed, improved, or was accomplished because of your efforts? -The strongest responses will describe your actions in detail and demonstrate independent decision-making, the complexity of the situation, and clear impact. -Responses that show comprehensive, high-level performance aligned with the role are more likely to receive the highest scores


2.
Describe one specific instance when you conducted a public safety or security operation to protect people, property, or sensitive information. In your response, please include the following (1-3): 1). What was the situation, and what were you responsible for? 2). What specific actions did you personally take? 3). What was the outcome or impact of those actions?


3.
Describe one specific instance when you led a criminal or traffic-related investigation from initial response through case closure. In your response, please include the following (1-3): 1). What was the situation, and what were you responsible for? 2). What specific actions did you personally take? 3). What was the outcome or impact of those actions?


4.
Describe one specific instance when you led an emergency response to a critical incident (e.g., suspicious package, credible threat). In your response, please include the following (1-3): 1). What was the situation, and what were you responsible for? 2). What specific actions did you personally take? 3). What was the outcome or impact of those actions?


5.
Describe one specific instance when you directed work and supported staff performance to meet operational standards. In your response, please include the following (1-3): 1). What was the situation, and what were you responsible for? 2). What specific actions did you personally take? 3). What was the outcome or impact of those actions?


6.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application. I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment. I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information. Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙