Position Title
Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-13003213-26-RT Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Drum, NY
 B. Syracuse, NY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.

Time-in-Grade Requirement: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-in-Grade requirement for Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor GS-0101-09/11/12..


1.
GS-09:  I possess 52 weeks of Time-in-Grade in the federal service at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-07 grade level or at a higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-07 grade level or at a higher grade.


2.
GS-11: I possess 52 weeks of Time-in-Grade in the federal service at the GS-09 grade level or higher?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-09 grade level or at a higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-09 grade level or at a higher grade.


3.
GS-12: I possess 52 weeks of Time-in-Grade in the federal service at the GS-11 grade level or higher?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-11 grade level or at a higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-11 grade level or at a higher grade.


Informational Note: This position is covered by a single agency qualification: Effective July 28,2023, VA Handbook 5005 was updated to change the VBA qualification standard for the Vocational Rehabilitation Counselors (VRCs) in the GS-0101 series. All applicants must meet the Basic Requirement and Specialized experience as stated below, to qualify.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for the VRC position, candidates must meet the following basic requirements:

A. Education. Successful completion of a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling or social work from an accredited college or university (MUST SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS).

B. Internship or Experience Requirement. The required (1) supervised internship or (2) post-master's degree experience is described as follows:

(1) Supervised Internship: The education described above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs. OR

(2) Experience: One-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities. OR

C. Grandfathering Provision. VRCs employed in VBA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including certifications that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:

(1) VRCs who are grandfathered into the GS-0101 occupational series may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level of a career ladder or changed to a lower grade within the occupation or placed in a supervisory or managerial position.
(2) VRCs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not be extended or reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard.
(3) If VRCs who are grandfathered under this provision leave the occupation, they lose protected status and must meet the full qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.


4.
Please select the one response that describes your ability to meet the Basic Education requirement for this VRC position.

 I have successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling or social work from an accredited college or university.
 I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification, as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023, and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I have NOT successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) as described in "A" above, nor am I eligible for the grandfathering provision in "B" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


5.
Please select the one response that describes your ability to meet the Internship or Experience requirement for the VRC position.
 I have successfully completed a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. My internship was supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.
 I have successfully completed at least one-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
 I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification, as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023 and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I do not meet the requirements as stated in "A", "B", or "C" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


6.
From the descriptions below, please select a response that best describes the level of education and experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor at the grade level of GS-11. Please select only one response. NOTE: If one year of work experience is credited for determining minimum qualifications, that year cannot also be used for determining grade level. For example, for candidates with two years of qualifying work experience, but no internship/practicum, the first year of experience is used to meet the basic requirement and the second year of experience to qualify for GS-11.

 In addition to meeting the Basic Education requirement listed above, I possess at least one year (52 Weeks) of specialized experience (post completion of my master's degree), equivalent to at least the grade level of GS-9 in the Federal or other service which was not included in meeting the basic requirement as stated above, indicating my ability to perform the duties of this position at the GS-11 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Experience that reflects management of vocational rehabilitation counseling or case management workload involving persons with a wide variety of disability conditions (e.g., mental health, physical, cognitive, visual/auditory, substance abuse).
 In addition to meeting the Basic Education requirement listed above, I have successfully completed 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree at an accredited college or university in a field directly related to the REHABILITATION of Adults with mental or physical disabilities, as described in question 1, which provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) necessary to do the work of this position at the GS-11 grade level.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education in a field directly related the REHABILITATION of Adults with mental or physical disabilities, as described in either "A" or "B" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


7.
From the descriptions below, please select a response that best describes the level of experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor at the GS-12 grade level. Please select only one response.

 In addition to meeting the Basic Education requirement stated above, I possess one year of post-graduate level professional vocational rehabilitation counseling experience, equivalent to at least the grade level of GS-11 in the Federal, state, local, public, or private sector. Specialized experience is defined as: post-master's degree, professional vocational rehabilitation counseling work in delivery of service to adults with disabilities; providing case management that involved determining entitlement ranges from simple to complex; AND direct delivery of vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs, other than those in correctional facilities.
 I do not have the specialized experience described in "A" listed above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-12 grade level.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙