Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
U.S. Army Military District of Washington
Announcement Number
DAHT269563614573HW
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
DA HT 536117 MW AIRCRAFT MECHANIC 4573 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in the position of Aircraft Mechanic, WG-8852-10, with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform WG-10 Aircraft Mechanic duties.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Aircraft Mechanic duties. I am skilled with various types of rotary wing aircraft in order to correct malfunctions of systems, subsystems, major assemblies and components; use diagnostic and test equipment to include operation of ground support equipment; connecting meshing, aligning and adjusting surfaces, systems, assemblies and components with one another; use of alignment fixtures, templates, precision dial and feeler gauges, special test measuring and diagnostic equipment, and common hand tools; use and read out of powered ground support equipment, test stands and aircraft cockpit instruments and gauges. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Aircraft Mechanic duties. I am skilled with various types of rotary wing aircraft in order to correct malfunctions of systems, subsystems, major assemblies and components; use diagnostic and test equipment to include operation of ground support equipment; connecting meshing, aligning and adjusting surfaces, systems, assemblies and components with one another; use of alignment fixtures, templates, precision dial and feeler gauges, special test measuring and diagnostic equipment, and common hand tools. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Aircraft Mechanic duties. This includes broad experience with various types of rotary wing aircraft in order to correct malfunctions of systems, subsystems, major assemblies and components; use diagnostic and test equipment to include operation of ground support equipment. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Aircraft Mechanic duties, or I have received training on various types of aircraft in order to correct malfunctions of systems, subsystems, major assemblies and components.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
