Position Title
Interdisciplinary Environmental Management Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13004892-SE-BK-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Oakland, CA
 B. Cleveland, OH
 C. Seattle, WA


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-12 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
GS-12 Basic Requirement: Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic education requirements for this position:

To meet the Basic Requirement for this position, you must meet either (A) or (B) below:
 A. I have a degree: biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the requirement described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your experience and/or education which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for GS-0401-12.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the federal sector that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include: Proving technical support, guidance, or direction to personnel, units, and/or program management personnel to facilitate environmental regulatory compliance and enhance environmental stewardship.; Executing, managing, and coordinating remediation / restoration projects and activities for the management and remedy of real property environmental liabilities; Managing and supporting compliance with NEPA requirements and/or ensuring program, projects, and activities adhere to historic / cultural resource management responsibilities and other environmental mandates for the preservation and protection of natural resources; Conducting regulatory compliance audits, compliance assistance visits, and/or pollution prevention assessments; documenting audit findings, drafting audit reports, assisting with / guiding resolution of non-compliance findings, or mentoring / training other audit personnel; Developing scopes of work/ statements of service, cost estimates, and project schedules; coordinating / monitoring / inspecting work-in-progress, investigating and supporting resolution of hindrances to project execution, supporting the resolution of contract disputes, liaising with stakeholders, participating in meetings and conference calls, review of work plans and other contractor submittals, or executing other project management / COR responsibilities.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


4.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙