Position Title
Hydro Repairperson
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-DE-13028252-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


1.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF THE POSITION WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT)


1.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a hydro repairperson without more than normal supervision. (screen out)
 I have performed 6 or more of the following duties on a regular basis: carpentry, welding, plumbing or pipe fitting, concrete finishing and repair, mechanic work (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), electrical maintenance work, plant operator (meter reading, inspecting plant equipment) equipment operator (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 4-5 of the following duties on a regular basis: carpentry, welding, plumbing or pipe fitting, concrete finishing and repair, mechanic work (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), electrical maintenance work, plant operator (meter reading, inspecting plant equipment), equipment operator (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 3 of the following duties on a regular basis: carpentry, welding, plumbing or pipe fitting, concrete finishing and repair, mechanic work (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), electrical maintenance work, plant operator (meter reading, inspecting plant equipment), equipment operator (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 2 of the following duties on a regular basis: carpentry, welding, plumbing or pipe fitting, concrete finishing and repair, mechanic work (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), electrical maintenance work, plant operator (meter reading, inspecting plant equipment), equipment operator (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts). (screen out)
 I have performed 1 or less of the following duties on a regular basis: carpentry, welding, plumbing or pipe fitting, concrete finishing and repair, mechanic work (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), electrical maintenance work, plant operator (meter reading, inspecting plant equipment), equipment operator (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts). (screen out)


ABILITY TO USE AND MAINTAIN TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT


2.
Select the machine and hand tools you have operated, maintained, or used in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Large Pneumatic-driven Wrenches
 B. Large Pneumatic-driven Hammers
 C. Torque Wrenches
 D. Power-driven Pipe Threading Equipment
 E. Power-driven Cutting Equipment
 F. None of the above


3.
Select the smaller mechanical maintenance equipment you have operated or used in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Drill Presses
 B. Specialized Shop Tool Bench Grinders
 C. Thread Gauges
 D. Calipers
 E. None of the above


4.
Select the mechanical maintenance equipment on which you have performed preventative maintenance in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Radial Drill Presses
 B. Lathes
 C. Precision Grinders
 D. Milling Machines
 E. Metal Saws
 F. None of the above


5.
Select the powerplant equipment that you have assisted in the inspection of, for service or faulty operation.
 A. Generators
 B. Pumps
 C. Motors
 D. Compressors
 E. Governors
 F. Auxiliary electrical and or mechanical equipment
 G. Motor generator sets
 H. Diesel generators
 I. Hydraulic gates or valves
 J. Staff gauges
 K. Bearing oil levels
 L. Emergency spill kits
 M. None of the above


ABILITY TO INTERPRET INSTRUCTIONS, SPECIFICATIONS, ETC. (INCLUDES BLUEPRINT READING)


6.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience, education or training in reading and interpreting blueprints or as-built drawings to maintain and repair equipment associated with a water conveyance facility.
 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of maintaining an industrial facility.
 I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.


7.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience, education or training in reading and interpreting manufacturers' instructions or other technical manuals to maintain and repair equipment associated with water storage and conveyance facilities.
 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of maintaining an industrial facility.
 I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.


8.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience, education or training in using equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment.
 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment in an industrial maintenance facility.
 I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment in a powerplant facility.
 I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment in a hydropower facility. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely.


9.
Select the response that best describes your skill in using standing operating procedures.

 I have used these procedures but would need help or close supervision.
 I have used these procedures to perform common and simple tasks with limited supervision.
 I have used these procedures to diagnose routine problems and perform common tasks without supervision.
 I have used these procedures to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks and I have used these diagrams to instruct others in their use.


10.
Which of the following activities have you performed which required you to read and interpret blueprints, drawings, and manufacturer's instructions? (Select all that apply)
 A. I have experience fabricating parts using blueprints or drawings.
 B. I have experience performing major repairs on power system equipment or any type of hydraulic/mechanical equipment using blueprints, drawings, and/or manufacturer's instructions.
 C. I have experience using construction or electrical blueprints, drawings, or instructions.
 D. I have taken technical coursework in blueprint reading, drafting, etc.
 E. I have used manufacturer's instructions to develop specifications for the acquisition of equipment or parts.
 F. I have used equipment maintenance manuals to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules.
 G. I have used blueprints to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 H. I have used drawings to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 I. I have used manufacturer's instructions to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 J. None of the above


KNOWLEDGE OF EQUIPMENT, ASSEMBLY, INSTALLATION, REPAIR, ETC.


11.
Select the types of plumbing/pipefitting systems you have installed or repaired in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Water
 B. Air
 C. Oil
 D. Sewage
 E. Gas
 F. Steam
 G. LPG
 H. Natural gas
 I. None of the above


KNOWLEDGE OF MATERIALS


12.
Select the types of concrete, plumbing/pipefitting or building repair or construction you have performed in a professional (commercial or industrial) work environment.
 A. Concrete placement or repair
 B. Concrete finishing and protective coatings for concrete
 C. Constructing forms
 D. Storage buildings, garages, or warehouses
 E. Hydraulic lines
 F. Water lines
 G. Sprinkler Systems
 H. Sewage Lines
 I. Replace Plumbing Fittings and Valves
 J. Painting (Indoor/Outdoor)
 K. Carpentry (Framing)
 L. Carpentry (Finishing)
 M. Building Repair
 N. None of the above


13.
Which of the following materials have you welded or cut in a commercial or industrial work environment?
 A. Steel (cast)
 B. Steel (stainless)
 C. Steel (mild)
 D. Aluminum
 E. Bronze
 F. Cast Iron
 G. None of the above


USE OF MEASURING INSTRUMENTS


14.
Select the technical measurement instruments you have operated or used in a professional (commercial or industrial) work environment.
 A. Inside Micrometers
 B. Outside Micrometers
 C. Electronic Micrometers
 D. Precision Machinist Levels
 E. Bore Gauges
 F. None of the above


15.
I have operated and read the following water measurement devices associated with water storage and conveyance systems.
 A. Flumes
 B. V-notch weirs
 C. Staff gauges
 D. Strip chart recorders
 E. Current meters
 F. Flow meters
 G. None of the above


TECHNICAL PRACTICES (THEORETICAL, PRECISE, ARTISTIC)


16.
Select the response that describes your experience in applying safety procedures when using tools and equipment.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in this function.
 I have on-the-job experience in this function. My work was closely monitored/supervised to ensure compliance with proper safety procedures.
 I have performed work safely as a regular part of a job. I have worked independently and without more than normal review by a supervisor or team leader and without injury.
 I have experience with using and following hazardous energy control (lockout/tagout) procedures as part of a job.
 Working safely has been an integral or major part of my job. I have routinely operated tools and equipment safely and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in safely operating tools and equipment. MC


17.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.
 I have accepted/held clearances in a large hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200CFS capacity) and verified the clearance boundary.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙