Position Title
MWR INSTALLATION PROGRAM DIRECTOR
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12890618 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Years of experience that demonstrate executive management skills in planning and executing assigned programs and services to meet required deadlines.
 5+ years of documented management experience in planning and executing assigned programs and services to meet required deadlines.
 3-4 years of documented management experience in planning and executing assigned programs and services to meet required deadlines.
 2-3 years of documented management experience in planning and executing assigned programs and services to meet required deadlines.
 Less than 2 years of documented management experience in planning and executing assigned programs and services to meet required deadlines.
 No documented experience of management experience in planning and executing assigned programs and services to meet required deadlines.


2.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a Bachelor's Degree in Recreation, Leisure Studies, Hospitality or a related field AND 3 years experience in at least 1 area of recreation at the management level. Transcripts must be uploaded in order to be considered.
 I have documented education and training PLUS a minimum of 5 years management experience. Transcripts must be uploaded in order to be considered.
 I have none of the above.


3.
Experience in developing and managing a budget, cost and profitability, financial reporting, auditing and purchasing.
 5+ years of documented experience within the civilian sector.
 4-5 years of documented experience within the DoD.
 4-5 years of documented experience within the civilian sector.
 2-3 years of documented experience within the civilian sector.
 Less than two years of documented experience within the DoD and civilian sector or no documentation.


4.
How would you describe your experience managing MWR programs?
 I have documented experience managing multiple MWR programs.
 I have documented experience managing programs in only one specific area of MWR (e.g., only Fitness, only Food & Beverage, or only Libraries).
 My program management experience is in a related field (e.g., municipal recreation, general hospitality) but not directly within a DoD MWR environment.
 I have no documented program management experience


5.
Which statement best describes your highest level of supervisory experience?
 I have documented experience as a second-level (or higher) supervisor, where I was directly responsible for managing other managers or supervisors who had their own subordinate teams. (This indicates experience as a "manager of managers.")
 I have documented experience supervising team leaders or assistant managers, but my primary focus was overseeing a large group of frontline staff.
 I have documented experience as a first-level supervisor, where I was responsible for directly managing frontline, non-supervisory employees.
 I have no documented supervisory experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙