Position Title
HAZMAT SPECIALIST (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12844233-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Hazmat Specialist Specialist, GS-2001-09 position.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07) with specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade with practical knowledge of a wide range of supply principles, concepts, and methodologies involving general supply, storage, distribution, and inventory specialties as they relate to hazardous materials; to include a general knowledge of contracting and transportation practices. Knowledge of established principles, concepts, and methods of environmental protection relating to hazardous materials; and skill in applying this knowledge to the effective management and control of the HAZMAT Pharmacy. Demonstrated ability researching documents or other resources to coordinate inventory requirements. Knowledge of stock levels, inventory, shipping, receiving, requisitioning and requirements of supplies and equipment. Knowledge of a variety of automated systems such as the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), Environmental Management Information System (EMIS), Base Contracting Automated System (BCAS), etc., to search, analyze, track and monitor hazardous materials. Ability to communicate in writing to prepare, compile, and research information for HAZMAT inventory, safety and environmental reports. Ability to communicate orally to conduct briefings, offer training, and lead group conferences or sessions. Experience involving the control of supply stocks and accounting for equipment. Knowledge of supply management, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Experience which required person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. Demonstrated experience with cost estimates, budgets, or funding management. Experience conducting extensive and exhaustive searches for required information; reconstruct records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for supply activities. HAZMAT TRAINING/ESSOH-MIS KNOWLEDGE PREFERRED
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I have a combination of the experience and education listed above. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


2.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am a current military member of another component immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a prior member eligible to immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience.


3.
Are you a SrA (E-4) not to exceed TSgt (E-6)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard as a SrA (E-4) not to exceed TSgt (E-6).
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

AFSC: Must have 2S051-2S071 as a primary AFSC.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?
 Yes
 No


7.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙