Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Assistant Engine Captain)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSDHAOC-26-12935686-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Sep 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Alturas, CA
 B. Apple Valley, CA
 C. Bakersfield, CA
 D. Banning, CA
 E. Cedarville, CA
 F. Doyle, CA
 G. Lee Vining, CA
 H. Onyx, CA
 I. Ridgecrest, CA
 J. Riverside, CA
 K. Susanville, CA
 L. Taft, CA
 M. Topaz, CA
 N. Yucca Valley, CA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Additional Questions
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


1.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required documentation as part of my resume/application.


Assessment 1
1.
I qualify for the GW-6 level because:
 You must possess one (1) full year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GW-05 level that is equivalent in difficulty and complexity as indicated by the following examples: experience as a member within a fire crew/module assisting in the driving and operating of a wildland fire engine, assisting in the positioning of the engine; starting the pump engine, priming pump, adjusting engine speed and pump valves, laying hose, and using appropriate nozzles; responsible for keeping engine in a full state of readiness. Monitors fire behavior, fire effects, and fire weather. Collects fuels characteristics such as fuel loading, tree stand density, fuel moisture, and maintains records. Maintains and operates specialized equipment, including emergency repairs.
 I do not meet the above responses.


2.
I qualify for the GW-7 level because:
 I have one (1) full year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GW-06 level that is equivalent in difficulty and complexity as indicated by the following examples: experience leading and directing a fire crew/module in fire suppression, prescribed fire, fire monitoring, and post-fire activities. Mentoring, instructing, and leading crewmembers by planning for and directing fire crew/module operations while recommending and implementing strategies and tactics of the module under evolving incidents with heightened situational awareness.
 I do not meet the above responses.


3.
I have held, or currently hold, all of the following Interagency Fire Program Management (IFPM) incident management qualifications to be considered eligible for this position:

 Firefighter Type 1 (FFT1) and Intermediate Wildland Fire Behavior (S-290).
 I do not meet the above response.


4.
As indicated in the qualifications section of the announcement, this position is a Primary position. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must meet age and/or service requirements. The maximum entry age is the date immediately preceding your 37th birthday. Select the statement that best describes how you meet the age and/or service requirements.

 A. I am under 37 years of age.
 B. I am 37 years of age or older AND I am currently serving and/or have previously served in a Federal civilian position covered by special fire-fighter retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement. I will provide a copy of my most recent SF50 and/or ALL SF50s showing that I have been in a primary covered position, as instructed in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I am over the age of 37 but under the age of 40. If selected for the position, applicant will receive an opportunity to be considered for an MEA waiver.
 D. I am a preference eligible veteran and will submit a DD-214 or other related documentation.
 E. I do not meet any of the above responses.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I have a current valid State Driver's License.

 Yes
 No


6.
I have a current valid Commercial Driver's License (CDL) with a Class A or B endorsement, or I agree to obtain one within one year of employment, if required. 
 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documentor interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙