Position Title
Lead Veterans Claims Examiner
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-CS-13046026-26-LC-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Nashville, TN


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This announcement is ONLY open to qualified current Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) AND former Veterans Affairs (VA) career/career-conditional employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Lead Veterans Claims Examiner GS-0996-14.
 I am an employee of Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure, and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 I am a qualified former VA career/career-conditional employee who is CTAP eligible, a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm: I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, I am applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than my current position; AND, ? My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 I am NOT an employee of VBA and I am NOT CTAP eligible, therefore I do not meet the area of consideration for this vacancy.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: This section is used to determine your job-related experience. Your experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Lead Veterans Claims Examiner GS-0996-14 position. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-13) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.

Specialized Experience is defined as you must show a mastery of planning, effective communication orally and in the written format, in order to provide cohesive training necessary to facilitate training wide information to both seasoned and new employees. The incumbent must possess knowledge of Federal, state, and local laws, regulations, procedures, and judicial determinations applicable to administering compensation, pension, and related benefits. The incumbent must have experience in the methods and techniques of instruction, which includes: a subject matter expert writer/instructor developing training materials through analysis, such as, but not limited to ELITE certification.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience does not meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In-Grade requirement. Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess One-year or 52 weeks time-in-grade, as required by the job announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit any SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time-in-grade.


3.
At the GS-14 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-13 or held the GS-14 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 Yes, I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 No, I do not have time in grade at the lower-level grade listed above.


CERTIFICATION/VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙