Position Title
Military Service Coordinator
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
325-26-RTP-12990798-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Military Services Coordinator (GS-0301-11) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume, application and responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capabilities. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) OR Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a current, permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) OR Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee OR a current/former VA employees who is CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am a current permanent VBA or VA employee.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible.
 No, I am not a current permanent VBA or VA employee or a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible.


TIME-IN-GRADE: For a GS-11 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of experience at the GS-09 level or above by the closing date of this announcement.

Note: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility.


2.
For the Military Service Coordinator (GS-0301-11) position, do you meet the Time-In-Grade requirements as described above?

 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of experience at the GS-09 level or above.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of experience at the GS-09 level or above.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: To qualify for the Military Service Coordinator GS-0301-11 position, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.

Specialized Experience: Specialized experience includes but is not limited to experience that demonstrates competence in adjudicating veterans' claims. Specialized experience is typically gained in positions that have involved experience in the development, examination, investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for disability compensation, disability pension, death compensation, death pension benefits, life insurance benefits, etc. Such experience is to be substantive and relevant and may have been gained in the practice of law or working with a Federal or state agency, insurance company, retirement, disability, or insurance program.

OR

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the experience required to qualify at the GS-11 level. Applicant will need to possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.M., if related.

OR

Combining Education & Experience: You may combine your education and specialized experience to qualify for this position. If you have some but not all of the graduate education AND specialized experience described above, you may still qualify by combining the amount of creditable education and experience that you do have. To do so, first calculate the percentage of qualifying education you have as a percentage of the education required. Next, calculate the percentage of specialized experience you have as a percentage of the experience required. Then, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% for you to qualify for this position. For example, an applicant who has 9 semester hours of graduate education (i.e., 50% of graduate education required) and 6 months of acceptable specialized experience (i.e., 50% of the experience required) would satisfy the qualification requirements for the position. If you qualify based on a combination of graduate education and specialized experience, you must submit a copy of your official college transcript with your application.


3.
Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements for the Military Service Coordinator (GS-0301-11) position as described above?

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience as described above and have documented that experience on my resume.
 Yes, I meet the education requirements as described above and will submit the appropriate school transcripts along with this application.
 Yes, I meet the combination of education & experience requirements as described above and will submit the appropriate documentation along with the application.
 No, I do not meet the minimum requirements for this position as described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that to the best of my knowledge all of the information included in this questionnaire is true and correct. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" or not answering to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this occupational questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙