Position Title
Management and Program Analyst - Temp Prom/Detail NTE 1 year, MBE up to not more than 3 years, MBMP
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
27-13083680A-TEN-343-14
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 23, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and: you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action). For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No
2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and: you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action). For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No
3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".) If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No
4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and: you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action). For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1 .
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 (AZ7887) 7350 W Cam San Xavier, Glendale, AZ
 (AZ6886) 1818 E Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ
 (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 (CA7023) 9350 Flair Dr, El Monte, CA
 (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 (CA7395) 801 Civic Center Dr, Santa Ana, CA
 (CA7816) 21040 Califa St, Woodland Hills, CA
 (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 (FL3132) 201 S Orange Ave, Orlando, FL
 (FL2437) 1248 N University Dr, Plantation, FL
 (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 (GA2004) 2888 Woodcock Blvd, Atlanta, GA
 (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 (IL2337) 2001 Butterfield Rd, Downers Grove, IL
 (IL2558) 5100 River Rd, Schiller Park, IL
 (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 (MA0131) 15 New Sudbury St, Boston, MA
 (MA6049) 103 Commercial St, Brockton, MA
 (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 (MI2181) 1270 Pontiac Rd, Pontiac, MI
 (MN1675) 1550 American Blvd E, Bloomington, MN
 (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 (MO1833) 1122 Town and Country, Chesterfield, MO
 (MO2008) 2850 NE Independence, Lees Summit, MO
 (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 (NJ4721) 955 S Springfield Ave, Springfield, NJ
 (NY7501) 999 Stewart Ave, Bethpage, NY
 (NY7288) 2 Metrotech Center, Brooklyn, NY
 (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 (NY0282) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY
 (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 (TX2835) 12309 N Mopac Expwy, Austin, TX
 (TX0284) 1100 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 (TX3077) 5555 N Beach St, Fort Worth, TX
 (TX0298) 1919 Smith, Houston, TX
 (TX2298) 12941 I-45 N, Houston, TX
 (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 (UT1434) 105 23rd St, Ogden, UT
 (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 (WA8075) 1301 A St, Tacoma, WA
 (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI
2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement? You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None
3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019). You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process. Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal
5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.
6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal
7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID) ?
8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.
9.
What is your current position title?
10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 Navigating USAJOBS
 Writing Your Federal Resume
 Interviewing Techniques
 Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 None of the above
11.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position: Employer Name & Job Title, Employment ( MM/DD/YYYY ) start and end date or present, Number of hours worked per week Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications. Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.
 Yes
 No
12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected. FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE) .
 Yes
 No
13.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the Tax Exempt and Government Entities - TE/GE business unit(s). Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No
I2166 TEGE GS-0343-14 Program Analyst Internal NBU
.
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience with a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods and techniques sufficient to coordinate complex programs and solutions of related issues pertaining to Exempt Organizations and Government Entities (EO/GE) customer segment (organizations exempt from income tax under IRC 501, Tax Exempt Bonds, Federal State and Local Governments, and Indian Tribal Governments); Experience with a full range of Federal laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to the segment(s) of the Service's program affected by the assigned project or study, specifically EO/GE; Experience with the overall mission, objectives, functions, policies, and organizational structure of the Internal Revenue Service and in particular, EO/GE; Experience with management principles and processes to perform project management duties and to effectively coordinate and integrate project objectives and recommendations both inside EO/GE and with other BODs; Experience working with others and to maintain harmonious relationships with all parties; Experience with oral and written communication.
.
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.
1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience with a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods and techniques sufficient to coordinate complex programs and solutions of related issues pertaining to Exempt Organizations and Government Entities (EO/GE) customer segment (organizations exempt from income tax under IRC 501, Tax Exempt Bonds, Federal State and Local Governments, and Indian Tribal Governments); Experience with a full range of Federal laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to the segment(s) of the Service's program affected by the assigned project or study, specifically EO/GE; Experience with the overall mission, objectives, functions, policies, and organizational structure of the Internal Revenue Service and in particular, EO/GE; Experience with management principles and processes to perform project management duties and to effectively coordinate and integrate project objectives and recommendations both inside EO/GE and with other BODs; Experience working with others and to maintain harmonious relationships with all parties; Experience with oral and written communication. Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
.
For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.
2.
Which of the following best describe your technical expertise managing, leading or contributing to the implementation of large programs or projects?
 Managed or lead large Programs and Projects, providing expertise in requirements management, formulating design documents or providing written technical guidance relative to the design, implementation, and adoption of requirement protocols.
 Member of a team responsible for the implementation of large programs or projects and have experience gathering user requirements, identifying and completing programming or other technical tasks associated with project implementation.
 Responsible for interpreting user requirements and programming system enhancements or managing a contractor completing program or project specific enhancements.
 None of the above
3.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience as a Program or Project Manager?
 Served in the role of a program or project lead directing a team comprised of programmers, analysts and system administration personnel and/or field experts from concept formulation through design and deployment.
 Served on a program or project as an expert or specialist to represent a specific area of expertise and/or specific function within the organization.
 Served in a full-time position as a leader of a group which was involved in accomplishing special projects, studies, or assignments of a complex nature.
 Independently served as a technical advisor or am often called upon to provide advice or guidance to leadership and/or at high level meetings.
 None of the above
4.
Which of the following have you done when determining the activities required to complete programs or projects?
 Identified costing and/or resources necessary to complete programs or projects.
 Worked with users to develop and design system requirements for programs or projects.
 Created schedules, identified deliverables, and dates to complete specific tasks associated with programs or projects.
 Interviewed stakeholders to obtain business and/or technical requirements and written a requirements document for enhancements to programs or projects.
 None of the above
5.
Which of the following best describes your experience researching, analyzing and formulating recommendations for programs or projects.
 Conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on two or more large programs or projects.
 Conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations for one program or project.
 Conducting research, performing analyses, and/or formulating recommendations on a set of activities that I am solely responsible for producing.
 None of the above
6.
Which of the following describes your experience communicating with internal and external audiences of stakeholders, customers and user groups.
 Developed Executive and Senior Manager level communications, briefings, and analysis documents for enterprise-wide applications, programs or projects
 Taught and have been an on-the-job training (OJT) coach.
 Authored reports and/or proposals on complex technical issues relating to enterprise-wide applications, programs or projects.
 Served as a subject matter expert for a project work group in completion of their task(s).
 Served as a mentor to co-workers or employees outside my workgroup.
 I am an individual contributor and provide assistance to co-workers through my work products.
 None of the above
7.
What is your experience writing technical documentation independently?
 Prepared documentation for executives, senior managers or management committees (for example, position paper, business case).
 Developed documentation in support of a program or project.
 Consolidated multiple technical documents into a single report.
 None of the above
8.
Which of the following describes your technical and analytical experience relating to EO/GE programs:
 Reviewing and analyzing technical and process documentation for adequacy and accuracy.
 Advising on potential areas of controversy or conflict and overall technical soundness of proposals and evaluating the resource impact of proposals.
 Analyzing developments and determining the impact they will have on current projects and programs.
 Serving as technical advisor within the field of Human Resources management.
 Individual contributor to projects, programs and technical activities.
 None of the above
9.
Which of the following describe the types of customers for which you have interacted in the development and delivery of a program or project?
 Executives, Senior Managers and Staff.
 Departments and Front-Line managers.
 External Customers, Stakeholders or Oversight (TIGTA, GAO).
 Co-workers, Technical experts, and/or Employees.
 Contractor and Consulting teams.
 Immediate supervisor.
 None of the above
10.
Which of the following describes your experience developing and conducting oral presentations and/or briefings for executives, managers and senior staff?
 Supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or technical staff.
 Served as a subject matter expert and prepared documentation in support of oral presentations and/or briefings by a current or former executive or senior manager.
 None of the above
11.
Which best describes your experience as a leader of or member of a team?
 Providing leadership and assistance to team members while completing multiple, complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Providing assistance to team members while completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completing a complex assignment with defined deadline.
 None of the above
12.
Which best describes your experience working requests from internal or external customers independently?
 Led the coordination of responses to large customer requests that span multiple projects and areas.
 Led the coordination of responses to small customer requests within my own project.
 Participated in the coordination of responses to customer requests.
 Provided input to customer requests received by me or my team.
 None of the above
13.
Which is true about your level of experience leading enterprise-wide programs or projects?
 Leading or managing enterprise or corporate level programs or projects.
 Leading or managing organizational level programs or projects.
 Managing programs or projects.
 None of the above
14.
Which of the following best describe your expertise in Program or Project management?
 Led and provided subject matter expertise to enterprise level Programs and Projects, formulating policy, developing short- and long-term project plans and providing technical guidance relative to the design and implementation of those programs or projects.
 Led and provided subject matter expertise to corporate level Programs and Projects, formulating policy, developing short- and long-term project plans and providing technical guidance relative to the design and implementation of those programs or projects.
 Served as a subject matter expert providing technical guidance on the design, development and implementation of enterprise or corporate level programs or projects.
 Served as a member of a team for enterprise or corporate level programs or projects.
 None of the above
15.
Which of the following best describe your technical expertise in EO/GE related programs?
 Led or managed enterprise level Programs and Projects, providing expertise in formulating policies and/or providing written technical guidance relative to the design, development and implementation of user requirements.
 Worked with customers to identify and document user requirements and supporting the design and development of policy, procedural or programmatic solutions.
 Worked as a member of a team with responsibility for identifying and documenting user requirements to facilitate program or project improvements.
 None of the above
16.
Which of the following have you done when determining the activities required to manage an enterprise or corporate level program or project?
 Identified the resources, human and technical required to accomplish an enterprise or corporate level program or project.
 Created in-depth project schedules, identified required activities and timelines for major project deliverables associated with an enterprise or corporate level program or project.
 Interviewed stakeholders to obtain business and/or technical requirements and developed a design document for implementing requirements.
 Led a project team with breaking high-level requirements down into actionable tasks and assigned the resources necessary to complete the tasks.
 None of the above
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?
 Yes
 No
18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
