Position Title
Civil Engineer (HYDRAULICS)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12922371-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Civil Engineer (Hydraulics) position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Civil Engineer (Hydraulics) in the Federal Service. Transcripts are required at the time of application.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Civil Engineer (Hydraulics) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1). Advises on hydraulic and hydrologic engineering for the implementation of Corps Water Management System (CWMS). 2). Develops hydraulic and hydrologic engineering analysis and design for state-of-the-art engineering application. 3). Experience as a hydraulic lead for domestic and international flood damage reduction systems studies.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


This position has a selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
This position requires the possession of a current Professional Engineer (PE) issued by any State in the United States, the District of Columbia,Guam, or Puerto Rico. Are you currently registered as a Professional Engineer issued by any one of the 50 states, or its territories? (You must attach current and valid documentation indicating your Professional Engineering registration number, the state in which you are registered,and the expiration date).
 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2

INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.

Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.

There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.

Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.



1.
You have completed a complex 2D hydraulic model simulation for a flood control project using HEC-RAS. The model results show unexpected velocity patterns near a proposed levee structure that differ significantly from your initial engineering judgment. Your supervisor needs the final report by tomorrow for a critical stakeholder meeting, and you have limited time to investigate further. What is your most appropriate course of action?
 Accept the model results as valid since the simulation completed successfully and focus your interpretation on explaining the unexpected patterns using theoretical hydraulic principles.
 Run additional sensitivity analyses on key parameters, compare results with simplified 1D models for validation, and include a technical discussion of uncertainties in your interpretation.
 Conduct a systematic review of boundary conditions, mesh quality, and input parameters, document any anomalies found, and present both the results and your technical assessment of their reliability in the report.
 Adjust the model parameters until the results align with your engineering judgment and present the modified results without documenting the changes made.
 Review the model setup for obvious errors, make necessary corrections, and include a brief note about the validation process in the technical documentation section.


2.
You are conducting a flood frequency analysis for a major river basin where a new residential development is proposed. The available stream flow data spans 45 years, but you discover a significant data gap from 1995-2000 due to gage malfunction. The local planning commission is requesting the 100-year flood elevation for permitting decisions. How should you proceed with your hydrologic evaluation?

 Perform regional frequency analysis using nearby gages with similar watershed characteristics, apply multiple statistical methods for comparison, and clearly document data limitations and uncertainty ranges in your analysis.
 Use the available 40 years of data without adjustment, apply frequency analysis using the largest recorded flood as the 100-year event, and proceed with standard design recommendations.
 Extend the record using correlation with nearby gages, apply frequency analysis to the extended dataset, and present results with standard confidence intervals.
 Apply standard frequency analysis to the available 40 years of data, note the data gap in your documentation, and recommend additional data collection for future updates.
 Use synthetic data generation techniques to fill the gap period, validate the approach with available regional data, and conduct sensitivity analysis on the frequency estimates.


3.
You are reviewing a Decision Document for a $50 million flood risk management project that includes innovative green infrastructure components. The hydraulic analysis appears technically sound, but you notice the design criteria used are from an outdated Corps guidance that has been superseded by new risk-based standards. The project team argues that changing criteria now would delay the project by 18 months and potentially lose federal funding. What is your most appropriate recommendation?

 Approve the document with a recommendation to update the analysis during the design phase and include specific requirements for compliance verification before construction.
 Recommend conditional approval contingent on updating the analysis to current standards, provide specific guidance on required modifications, and work with the team to identify critical path adjustments that minimize delays.
 Approve the document as submitted since the hydraulic analysis is technically sound and note that the criteria difference can be addressed through standard engineering judgment during construction.
 Request a comprehensive risk assessment comparing the old versus new criteria impacts, recommend approval if risks are acceptable, and require monitoring provisions during construction.
 Recommend approval based on the technical adequacy of the existing analysis but require a formal waiver request to headquarters for the outdated criteria usage.


4.
You have developed a new hydraulic modeling tool that significantly improves flood risk assessment accuracy for urban areas. You need to present this tool to a diverse audience including district engineers, non-technical stakeholders, and senior leadership who will decide on implementation across USACE. The presentation is scheduled for 30 minutes with 15 minutes for questions. How should you structure your communication approach?

 Start with technical validation results, show comparative accuracy improvements, present cost-benefit analysis, and provide detailed implementation timeline with resource allocation recommendations.
 Present the technical development process, show validation against existing tools, explain the theoretical improvements, and request feedback on potential applications across districts.
 Open with the problem statement, demonstrate tool capabilities through multiple examples, discuss technical methodology, and end with a summary of advantages over current methods.
 Focus primarily on the sophisticated technical features and mathematical improvements, provide detailed model equations, and demonstrate the tool's computational efficiency and advanced capabilities.
 Begin with the business case and risk reduction benefits, demonstrate the tool with a relevant case study, explain technical improvements in accessible terms, and conclude with implementation recommendations and resource requirements.


5.
You are leading a multi-disciplinary team conducting a comprehensive water resources study for a major river basin. During a stakeholder meeting, a local mayor challenges your flood frequency analysis, claiming it doesn't account for recent climate patterns and will result in inadequate protection for his community. Other stakeholders begin expressing similar concerns, and the meeting atmosphere becomes tense. How should you respond?

 Dismiss the concern by stating that Corps methodology is scientifically rigorous and federally approved, emphasize that local observations are not statistically significant, and proceed with the original agenda.
 Explain that your analysis follows established Corps guidance and industry standards, note that climate impacts are considered through current design procedures, and continue with the planned presentation.
 Thank the mayor for the input, provide a brief explanation of standard Corps procedures for climate considerations, and offer to schedule a separate technical briefing for interested stakeholders.
 Defend your technical approach by citing the peer-reviewed methods used, explain that local perceptions may not align with statistical analysis, and redirect the discussion to other study components.
 Acknowledge the concern as valid, explain your current methodology and data sources, discuss how climate considerations are incorporated, and propose a follow-up technical session to review the analysis in detail.


6.
You are presenting risk assessment results for an aging dam to a congressional delegation that includes both engineers and non-technical members. Your analysis indicates a moderate increase in failure probability, but the recommended risk reduction measures are costly. One congressman interrupt, asking for a simple yes/no answer about whether the dam is "safe." How should you effectively communicate the risk assessment findings?

 State that the dam meets current safety standards but has identified areas for improvement, explain the risk assessment process briefly, and focus on the benefits of the recommended risk reduction measures.
 Explain that dam safety involves probability and consequences rather than absolute terms, use analogies to everyday risks for context, present the risk levels with clear comparisons to accepted standards, and outline how proposed measures reduce risk.
 Emphasize that no dam can be considered completely safe, provide the technical risk numbers, and explain that the recommended measures represent standard engineering practice for similar facilities.
 Acknowledge that safety questions require nuanced answers, provide the current risk levels in both technical and comparative terms, and explain how the recommended actions address identified vulnerabilities.
 Answer that the dam is safe according to current standards, note that all infrastructure has some level of risk, and recommend proceeding with routine maintenance rather than major modifications.


7.
You are preparing a hydraulic design memorandum for a complex flood control project that involves multiple stakeholder agencies. While reviewing your calculations, you discover an error in your original Manning's roughness coefficient assumptions that affects the design flood elevations by approximately 0.8 feet. The project is already in the final design phase, and correcting this error would require significant design modifications and potentially delay construction by 6 months. What is your most appropriate course of action?

 Perform additional analysis to validate the error significance, assess alternative design solutions that could minimize impacts, and prepare a detailed technical briefing for project leadership with recommended options.
 Conduct sensitivity analysis to determine if the error falls within acceptable engineering tolerances, and if marginal, recommend proceeding with additional safety factors in other design elements.
 Note the error in your files for future reference but proceed with the current design since the 0.8-foot difference is within typical engineering uncertainty ranges and construction delays would be costly.
 Immediately document the error and its impacts, conduct a comprehensive analysis of design implications, coordinate with the project team to develop modification strategies, and prepare a technical memorandum outlining corrective actions and schedule impacts.
 Document the error in your calculations, notify the project manager of the issue and potential impacts, and request guidance on how to proceed with the design modifications.


8.
A congressman's office has requested a technical briefing document explaining why your district's flood control project cost estimates have increased by 40% since the initial feasibility study. The increase is due to updated hydraulic modeling that revealed more complex foundation conditions and required design modifications. The congressman's staff has indicated they need a clear explanation for upcoming budget hearings. How should you prepare this correspondence?

 Write a detailed engineering report documenting all technical changes, including complete hydraulic analysis results, and provide comprehensive cost accounting for all design modifications and their engineering justification.
 Create a technical memorandum outlining the hydraulic modeling improvements, explaining how new data affected design requirements, and provide a summary of resulting cost adjustments with supporting documentation.
 Prepare a structured technical summary explaining the original assumptions, new findings from updated analysis, specific design changes required, and cost implications, supported by clear graphics and a comparison table of original versus current project scope.
 Prepare a brief summary stating that improved engineering analysis revealed additional project requirements, note that cost increases reflect more accurate project understanding, and reference standard Corps design procedures.
 Develop a comprehensive explanation of the technical analysis progression, document the engineering basis for design changes, and provide detailed cost breakdowns with justification for each major modification.


9.
You are developing a technical training program for junior engineers on advanced hydraulic modeling techniques. Your audience includes engineers with 2-5 years of experience who have basic HEC-RAS knowledge but limited experience with 2D modeling applications. The training needs to prepare them for complex project assignments within 6 months. How should you structure this technical training program?

 Assign reading materials on advanced hydraulic modeling, provide access to software training videos, and schedule periodic group discussions to share learning experiences and technical questions.
 Design a progressive curriculum combining theoretical foundations with hands-on workshops using actual project case studies, include mentoring assignments with experienced modelers, and establish competency checkpoints with practical modeling exercises.
 Develop a comprehensive course covering 2D modeling theory, software applications, and validation techniques, supplemented with guided practice sessions and individual project assignments with regular feedback.
 Create a structured training series covering advanced modeling concepts, provide software tutorials and practice datasets, and conclude with a capstone project demonstrating learned skills.
 Organize intensive workshops on 2D modeling software features, provide technical reference materials and example problems, and schedule follow-up sessions to address questions and review progress.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙