Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYO-26-13062669-MP-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION. The following questions address if you are eligible to apply to this job opportunity announcement through Merit Promotion procedures. You will only be considered under the options you have selected. You may qualify for more than one eligibility, so please choose carefully. If you respond that you do not meet any of the following criteria, you will not be considered for this position under this announcement. Please refer to the announcement for additional information. You must submit a complete application by the close of the announcement to be considered.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Current or Former Federal Employee (Promotional): 
Do you wish to be considered under Competitive Merit Promotion (Promotion)?
To be eligible under competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal civilian employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds a lower grade level than the position being announced or advertised full performance level for this position.

To claim eligibility under competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 
 Yes
 No


3.

Current or Former Federal Employee (Lateral or Downgrade): 
Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.

Pathways Program Participant Eligible for Conversion
This authority allows for current Pathways Program participants, that have completed all Pathways program requirements to be non-competitively converted to a permanent or Term position.

To be eligible for non-competitive conversion from a Pathways Intern position, you must:

Be a U.S. Citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island);
Be within the 180-day conversion timeframe from the date your degree, career, or technical education program requirements are completed;
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program while enrolled at least a part-time basis;
Up to 160 of the 480-hour service requirement may be waived when you complete 320 hours of career related experience or other experience that may be credited in accordance with 5 CFR 362.204(c) or 5 CFR 362.204(d). You must provide supporting documentation to support this provision (i.e. written contract, intern agreement, or recommendation letter from an instructor or program administrator).
Successfully completed your degree, career, or technical education program requirements;
Meet the qualification standards for the position to which you will be converted;
Receive favorable recommendation for conversion from your supervisor and maintain acceptable performance; and
Meet agency-specific requirements as specified in the Participant's Agreement.
If you are an Indefinite Intern, you must have a completed Individual Development Plan (IDP).
Pathways Recent Graduate - You may be eligible for conversion if you are a Pathways Program Recent Graduate and meet the following criteria:
Successfully completed at least 1-year of continuous service in addition to all the requirements of the Recent Graduates Program;
Demonstrated successful job performance consistent with the applicable performance appraisal program established under the agency's approved performance appraisal system that results in a rating of record (or summary rating) of at least Fully Successful or equivalent and a recommendation for conversion by the first-level supervisor; and
Met the OPM Qualification Standard for the competitive service position to which you will be converted.

To claim eligibility for non-competitive conversion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation including:

Transcripts with degree date, unofficial will be accepted, however official transcripts will be required prior to a final job offer;
Current Pathways Program agreement;
Copy of favorable recommendation for conversion from the work experience supervisor;
Most Recent Performance Appraisal; and
Current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 showing Pathways status.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a Pathways Program participant that is eligible for conversion?
 Yes
 No


5.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans: 
To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents:
copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service;
copy of your disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; 
copy of the completed Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouse: 
To claim Military Spouse eligibility under 5 CFR 315.612, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority, and you are one of the following:
Active-Duty Spouse: Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is serving on active duty? OR
Based on 100% Disability: Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? OR
Based on Service Member's Death: Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents:
Active-Duty Spouse: You must submit a copy of your spouse's active military orders and a copy of the marriage certificate. 
Based on 100% Disability: You must submit the Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.); and a copy of the marriage certificate. 
Based on Service Member's Death: You must submit the Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death (e.g. copy of the marriage certificate). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information regarding Military Spouse, see the USAJOBS Help Center - Military spouses.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Military Spouse?
 Yes
 No


7.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


8.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


9.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


10.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? 

-OR

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? 

-OR

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years? 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment under National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA) eligibility?
 Yes
 No


11.
Individuals with disabilities
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must provide "proof of a disability" documentation. "Proof of a disability" is a letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits. Example letter format can be found here: sampleschedaletters.pdf. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment under Schedule A Hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


12.
Former Public Lands Corps Member
To claim eligibility under the Public Lands Corps (PLC) Hiring Authority, Public Law 109-154; please confirm:
You are you a former member of the PLC.
The completion of your last PLC project was within the last two years.
You served a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service on appropriate conservation projects and at least 120 hours served on a project utilizing the PLC legal authority.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of the Certificate of Eligibility. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review the Department of the Interior PLC Hiring Authority Personnel Bulletin. 

Are you eligible for non-competitive hire under the PLC authority?
 Yes
 No


13.
Special Hiring Authorities and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Interchange Agreement
Do you meet any of the non-competitive eligibilities listed below?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 
Be currently serving under an appointment without time limit in another merit system or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; AND
Be currently serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement (some agreements do not cover all positions of the other merit systems); AND
Have served continuously for at least 1 year in the other merit system prior to appointment under the interchange agreement.
Are you an Employee under Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management; or another authority which grants non-competitive eligibility (Postal Career Service Employee; Postal Rate Commission Employee; Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee)?
Are you eligible based on a Department of Interior (DOI) or bureaus' special authority not regulated by OPM (e.g. Directorate Fellowship Program, Resource Assistants)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. You must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or equivalent documentation reflecting your status. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on miscellaneous appointing authorities, visit the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, navigate to Types of Appointments.
 Yes
 No


14.
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA)
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference (this includes family members entitled to derived preference)

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service, and/or other documentation which shows you are entitled to veterans' preference which includes completed SF-15 for 10-point preference eligibles and the associated supporting documentation as outlined in the SF-15.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center - Veterans. 

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the VEOA?
 Yes
 No


15.
Veterans Recruitment Authority (VRA)

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR
are a disabled veteran; OR
served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?

NOTE:  Eligible veterans may be appointed without competition to positions at any grade level through General Schedule (GS) 11 or equivalent. (The promotion potential of the position is not a factor.) 

For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center - Veterans.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the Veterans Recruitment Authority? 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


2.
Are you including a copy of your most recent (dated within the last 18 months) performance appraisal/evaluation?

Important Note: Please submit 1) a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and 2) a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years. Any performance appraisal/evaluation and award documentation you provide will be forwarded to the selecting official. The selecting official will review this documentation and give it due weight consideration during the overall selection process. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation, please submit a statement as to why it is not available. Please indicate if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you did not include a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation dated within the last 18 months, please provide a statement as to why it is not available.

Important Note: All applicants must submit their most recent performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor. If the performance appraisal is not dated within the last 18 months OR no performance appraisal is available, you must submit a statement as to why it is not available (including if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level). Failure to submit a valid justification will result in loss of consideration due to an incomplete application package.






Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-10.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Maintenance Worker duties without more than normal supervision. I am skilled in performing maintenance, repair, installation, troubleshooting, and/or construction work in two or more skilled trades, such as electrical, HVAC/refrigeration, plumbing, carpentry, masonry, welding, roofing, painting, or mechanical maintenance. I independently determine appropriate work methods and materials; interpret blueprints, diagrams, specifications, and/or technical instructions; use and maintain hand and power tools and measuring instruments; diagnose problems and complete repairs or installations in accordance with established procedures and safety requirements. I am considered an expert and perform these duties independently.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Maintenance Worker duties under general supervision. I have experience performing maintenance, repair, installation, troubleshooting, and/or construction work in two or more skilled trades, such as electrical, HVAC/refrigeration, plumbing, carpentry, masonry, welding, roofing, painting, or mechanical maintenance. I determine work methods and materials; interpret blueprints, diagrams, specifications, and/or technical instructions; use and maintain hand and power tools and measuring instruments; diagnose problems; and complete repairs or installations in accordance with established procedures and safety requirements. I work independently on most assignments, with occasional reviews by a supervisor.
 I have the ability to perform common Maintenance Worker duties. I have experience assisting with or performing routine maintenance, repair, installation, troubleshooting, and/or construction work in two or more skilled trades, such as electrical, HVAC/refrigeration, plumbing, carpentry, masonry, welding, roofing, painting, or mechanical maintenance. I use common hand and power tools and measuring instruments; follow blueprints, diagrams, specifications, technical instructions, and established safety procedures; and assist with diagnosing problems and completing repairs or installations. My work is performed under close supervision and is reviewed while in progress and upon completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance, repair, installation, or construction tasks in one or more trades, or I have received training in the use of basic hand and power tools, measuring instruments, technical instructions, and established maintenance and safety procedures. My work required close supervision and/or specific instructions.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


Integrity Certification


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙