Position Title
Power Plant Operator (TC-I)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-12980777-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Operator (TC-I) position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Power Plant Operator tasks. I have the ability to restore a 12 megawatt or larger turbine generator to service after major overhaul in a large power plant with my work checked by my supervisor or another journey-level Power Plant Operator. I am skilled in responding to system plant or disturbances under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence. My resume reflects current or experience performing these tasks.
 I am able to perform the full range of Power Plant Operator tasks including independently performing demanding or complex tasks in a hydropower generating plant of at least 800 megawatt or less generation capability. I am skilled in coordinating routine generator start and stop tasks for normal operations and have restored an 80 megawatt or larger turbine generator to service after major overhaul in an 800 megawatt or smaller power plant. I am able to perform these tasks under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 I am able to perform common Power Plant Operator tasks to perform common duties in a power plant of at least 300-megawatt generation capability. I can restore a 15 megawatt or larger turbine generator to service after major overhaul in a 300 megawatt or larger power plant. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 I am able to perform minor tasks of a control room or Power Plant Operator in a power producing plant. I frequently receive supervisory guidance, and my work is inspected where power plant operation decisions are involved. I perform simple tasks where major generating equipment is involved, or I have received training on the operation of generators. I can handle routine control room or power plant operator work, but I lack the ability to take command of situations. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙