Position Title
Human Resources Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0383A Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


5.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the option that best describes your qualifications.
 I have One year of specialized experience at the lower grade (GS-4, 5 or 6 equivalents; or NF-2)
 I have 6 months of experience in Human Resources as a Human Resources staff and at least 1.5 years of clerical or administrative assistant experience.
 Two (2) years of experience in a Human Resources office or any office setting as Administrative or Clerical Assistant.
 None of the above


2.
Knowledge of personnel processing rules, procedures, or operations
 I have Navy NAF personnel experience
 I have Other DoD NAF personnel experience
 I have Navy APF personnel experience
 I have non-DoD personnel experience
 I have None of the above


3.
Do you have experience with any of the following operating systems?
 Navy SAPHR
 DoD DCPDS or MILPDS
 Private Industry Programs
 None of the above


4.
How many years of experience do you have with Microsoft Office programs?
 5+ years
 2 - 4 years
 Less than 2 years
 None of the above


5.
Please select your level of education.
 Bachelor's Degree or higher in Human Resources Management or Business Management. Must have been awarded before time of application.
 A certificate in Human Resources Management (SPHR, PHR).
 Associate's Degree in Human Resources or Business Management. Must have been awarded before time of application or an APRH certificate in Human Resources Management.
 2 years of education above high school.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙