Position Title
Office Manager
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCNA-26-12880615-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. San Jose, CA


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No
 NA - 1 Year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Office Manager position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-11: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Office Manager at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your experience in a supervisory position:

 I have held a first-line supervisory position and, with limited independence, performed the full range of duties for a staff composed of diverse types of support personnel.
 I have supervised staff members in a remote location to my own.
 I have held a team leader position performing limited supervisory duties for a small work group.
 I have not held a supervisory position.


3.
Which of the following supervisory/managerial duties have you performed? (Select all that apply).

 A. Provided input to performance appraisals.
 B. Assigned work.
 C. Coordinated leave.
 D. Assisted in addressing performance issues.
 E. Assisted in addressing conduct issues.
 F. Served as an interim acting supervisor/manager.
 G. None of the above.


4.
Do you have any formal education relating to the legal profession?

 Yes, I have a paralegal certificate
 Yes, I have an undergraduate degree in a legal related field (pre-law, political science, paralegal, etc.)
 Yes, I have a graduate degree in a legal related field (J.D., political science, paralegal, etc.)
 Yes, I have an associate degree and/or certificate as a legal secretary or legal assistant
 No, I do not have any formal education related to the legal field


5.
Which of the following describes your education related to business administration, management, or related field (such as human resources or finance)?

 I have an MBA or graduate degree.
 I have completed some graduate-level coursework.
 I have completed an undergraduate degree.
 I have completed some undergraduate coursework.
 None of the above


6.
Which one of the following activities have you performed that demonstrates your experience communicating in a professional environment? (Select all that apply)

 A. I have developed and made formal presentations to Executive-level audiences.
 B. I have presented proposals to management-level audiences.
 C. I have prepared a variety of written documents or reports designed to explain complex, technical procedures or processes.
 D. I have provided advice or guidance clarifying regulations, procedures or work processes to employees.
 E. I have experience persuading upper management of the advantages of pursuing a certain course of action.
 F. I have authored documents needed to complete a procurement action (Statement of Work, cost estimate).
 G. I have authored operating procedures for an office.
 H. I have written reports summarizing the activities and findings of a review team.
 I. None of the above.


7.
Which one of the following best describes your experience resolving issues related to communication?

 I have experience interacting with others to resolve complex issues that impacted multiple individuals or offices.
 have experience interacting with others to resolve complex issues that were elevated to me by subordinate staff.
 I have experience interacting with others that I serve to resolve issues.
 None of the above.


8.
Which software applications have you used extensively in an office environment? (Select all that apply.)

Excel
Word
Access
PowerPoint
SharePoint
Outlook
Adobe Acrobat
Timekeeping Software
Office-wide travel management system
Financial/procurement tracking system
iBlaze/Concordance
Lexis Nexis/Westlaw
Legal case tracking system
None of the above


9.
For which of the following topics have you been responsible for interpreting regulations, policies and procedures, and providing guidance to staff? (Select all that apply).

 A. Travel authorizations/vouchers.
 B. Personnel management.
 C. Timekeeping administration
 D. Budget and procurement.
 E. Facilities management.
 F. None of the above


10.
From the following list, please select the statement that best describes your role(s) in the procurement and budgetary process.

 I have experience in working with accounting, procurement, and payment procedures and I have worked within an automated system.
 I have assisted with accounting, procurement, and payment procedures.
 I have monitored and tracked budget expenditures at my level.
 I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations to management officials within an organization.
 None of the above.


11.
Which of the following activities have you performed that required knowledge of legal support procedures? (Select all that apply)

 A. I have reviewed incoming legal correspondence and routed it to the appropriate person/attorney for action.
 B. I have monitored due dates and deadlines on pending case actions and following up to insure timely completion.
 C. I have formatted legal documents such as answers, motions, decisions, settlement memorandums, subpoenas, etc.
 D. I have examined case documents to determine if procedural requirements have been met.
 E. I have analyzed reports produced from legal case tracking databases.
 F. I have assisted attorneys by taking notes at trial calendar sessions (for example, take notes, records due dates ordered by the judge, records case disposition).
 G. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 H. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following resource management tasks have you performed? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Coordinated an office reconfiguration or office move.
 B. Determined staffing levels to address workload of the office.
 C. Maintained a law library including ensuring all materials are up-to-date and available in sufficient quantity
 D. Ensured new staff coming on board had office space, equipment, and supplies.
 E. Managed contracts for office equipment such as copiers, fax machines, and shredders.
 F. Maintained inventory of office supplies.
 G. None of the above.


13.
Select the statement that describes your experience performing research, analyzing case files and reference materials, and providing information to attorneys or other professionals for their use in interpreting statutes, regulations, and/or policies.

 I have over 3 years of experience performing research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience performing research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have less than 1 year of experience performing research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have not performed this task for attorneys or other professionals, but I have performed legal research and analyzed case files in a classroom.
 I have not performed legal research or analyzed case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.


14.
What role have you served in interpreting personnel, procurement and other regulations that apply to federal or civilian office operations for staff in an office environment?

 I have been the lead responsible for developing office-wide policies and procedures based on newly introduced regulations.
 I have been responsible for providing interpretations to staff on regulations, policies, and procedures based on existing precedents.
 I have been responsible for researching regulations, policies, and procedures to locate relevant sections and disseminating information to staff on an as-needed basis.
 None of the above.


15.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙