Position Title
Medical Records Technician (ROI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12893467-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Screen Out: Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


The following will determine if you meet the qualifications for the position. Please refer to the qualifications section of the announcement for more information on the minimum qualifications. Be aware that your answers will be verified against the information provided in your resume and application materials. Be sure that your application clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail in your resume. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated competencies. You should be aware that your answers to this assessment is subject to evaluation and verification based on your resume and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed for you to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting your or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


This section pertains to the basic and specific grade requirements for Medical Records Technicians (Release of Information). You must meet the basic requirements based on creditable experience, education or an experience/ education combination to be considered minimally qualified. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript(s) for any education used to qualify for this position.


2.
Screen Out: Basic Requirement: Applicants must meet the basic experience or education requirements to qualify for the entry grade of GS-4. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education and select the ONE that best describes your education. Please remember that a copy of your transcript must be submitted with your application if using education as qualifying.
 I possess one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health records with six months providing me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT (ROI) work.
 I possess an associate degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/ health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 I possess one of the equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education; Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses OR Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision.
 I do not possess any of the education or experience listed above.


3.
Screen Out: To qualify for the GS-05 you must possess either:

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-4).
Receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests per policies and regulations.
Utilize various computer applications to track and release all authorized ROI requests.
Process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors.
MRTs (ROI) initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records.
Ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.
OR,

Education: Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-4). Receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests per policies and regulations. Utilize various computer applications to track and release all authorized ROI requests. Process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors. MRTs (ROI) initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. Ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information. OR, Education: Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 Yes, I possess one year (52 weeks) of the specialized experience defined above. I have fully detailed my experience in my resume.
 Yes, I possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited University/College meeting the requirements above. I have included a copy of all of my transcripts
 No, I do not possess either the specialized experience or degree listed above. I understand I will receive no further consideration.


In addition to the experience required, you must also meet the ALL of the demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities for the respective grade level. Responses to the following questions are not required, however responses will be used to verify that you meet the KSA's if we are not able to easily ascertain information in your resume.


4.
Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products utilized in MRT (ROI) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, release of information systems, etc.)



5.
Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and processes for disclosing protected health information.



6.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work in order to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues



7.
Knowledge of policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.



8.
Ability to communicate with individuals from various backgrounds to obtain the desired effect or gaining information by establishing rapport.



9.
Screen Out: To qualify for the GS-06 you must possess:

Experiences: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-5).
Receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests according to policies and regulations.
Utilize various computer applications to track and release all authorized release of information requests.
Process and release health information to authorized first and third-party requestors.
Initiate and maintain accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records.
Communicate with internal and external stakeholders to provide technical expertise regarding the release of information process.
Ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.
 Yes, I possess one year of creditable specialized experience as defined above. I have fully detailed my experience in my resume.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience defined above. I understand that I will receive no further consideration.


In addition to the experience required, you must also meet the ALL of the demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities for the respective grade level. Responses to the following questions are not required, however responses will be used to verify that you meet the KSA's if we are not able to easily ascertain information in your resume.


10.
Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and 38 U.S.C. ? 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records).



11.
Ability to apply health record documentation guidelines and processes to navigate efficiently through the paper and/or electronic health record to locate, assemble, and disclose protected health information.



12.
Ability to apply policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information to process requests for release of information



13.
Ability to research and solve difficult questions related to release of health information in an accurate and timely manner.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙