Position Title
Supervisory Surety Guarantee Specialist
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
26-170-TM-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you meet the following criteria for Competitive Merit Promotion eligibility:
I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service To be eligible you must have least one year Time In Grade (TIG) at the next lower grade level, or higher, from the position to which you are applying.;
I am a former Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service.
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field--block 24--is "1" or "2"); and
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field--block 34--is "1")
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently or have you previously occupied a permanent position in which the full performance level (FPL) is equivalent to the FPL of the position being advertised?

i.e., to be eligible for NonCompetitive consideration to a position being advertised at the GS-09, with an FPL of a GS-12, you must have previously held one of the following:
GS-09 with an FPL of GS-12
GS-11 with an FPL of GS-12
GS-12 - 15
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status and full performance level. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field--block 24--is "1" or "2");
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field--block 34--is "1"); AND,
• full performance level (equivalent to the FPL of the position being advertised).
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?
For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
1.
This vacancy is only open to current SBA, competitive service, career, or career-conditional employees, and non-competitive eligible's. Please select the response that best applies to you.

 I am a current SBA, competitive service, career, or career-conditional employee. You MUST submit an SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action, that reflects your current employment with the SBA; tenure "1" or "2" in block 24; and "1" in block 34 to support this response.
 I am eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority (Schedule A or 30% disabled veteran) AND employed with SBA.
 I am not in the area of considerations.


2.
Select the one statement below that BEST describes your experience to meet the basic requirements for the Supervisory Surety Guarantee Specialist, GS-1101-14 position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service, obtained in either the private or public sector performing duties such as1) Performing financial and contract underwriting specific to contract surety bonds; and 2) analyzing financial statements of small business contractors; and 3) developing standard operating procedures geared to federal government public-private partnerships with surety companies; and 4) promoting and marketing federal government programs to private entities. These qualifications must clearly be referenced in your resume.
 I do not have the specialized experience listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙