Position Title
HELICOPTER FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR / EVALUATOR (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13049860-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 29, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please read and answer all questions carefully. Make sure to review your answers before submitting. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I understand that transcripts/certificates for the following courses must be provided with my application.

REQUIREMENTS FOR ASSIGNED POSITION EMPLOYMENT:

Must have ONE of the following courses:

- Maintenance Test Pilot- graduate of the Maintenance Test Pilot Course and the AMOC Course: AR 95-1/TC 3-04.11- Instructor Pilot- Instructor Pilot Course: AR-95-1/TC 3-04.11 - Unit Trainer/Evaluator- meet the Instructor Pilot Course or the Unit Trainer/Evaluator Course: TC 3 04.9/TC 3-04.11 - Aviation Mission Survivability Officer- Aviation Mission Survivability Officer Course: TC 3-04.9/TC 3 04.11 - Aviation Safety Officer- Aviation Safety Officer Course: AR 385-10/TC 3-04.11 - Instrument Examiner- Instrument Examiner Course: AR-95-1/TC 3-04.11 - Maintenance Examiner- Maintenance Examiner Course: AR-95-1/TC 3-04.11 - Standardization Instructor Pilot- Instructor Pilot Course: AR-95-1/TC 3-04.11
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Warrant Officer between the ranks of W-3/CW3 Not to Exceed CW5 -OR - an Officer O-3/CPT Not to Exceed O-5 /LTC?


NOTE: Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Army National Guard in the ranks listed above.
 Yes, I am a W-3/CW3 Not to Exceed CW5.
 Yes, I am a O-3/CPT Not to Exceed O-5/LTC.
 No, I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? For Dual-Status Technician positions service affiliation under Title 32 USC 709 is required.  Military skill set is determined by AFSC/MOS requirements. Upon selection, individuals must be assigned to a compatible military AFSC/MOS per statutes and National Guard Bureau regulations and must obtain/maintain all requirements of the AFSC/MOS.   

Army National Guard Officer : Branch 15 - Aviation Branch 67 - Medical Service Corps


 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



6.
Warrant Officers: Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for entry appointments to GS-2181-12 or GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Warrant Officer positions. Qualification competencies are determined by three factors: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. For Army National Guard positions, must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, in military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Groups. To qualify, the applicant must have at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation. Experienced in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information. Experienced in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments. Experienced in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance. Competent in conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks. Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Knowledge is required in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures. Experienced in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes, I meet the requirements listed above and it is clearly referenced in my
 I am a Officer.
 I do not meet the requirements stated above.


7.
Officers: Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for appointments to GS-2181-12 and GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Officer positions. For Army National Guard positions, must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in the Air National Guard Operations Groups. Qualification competencies are determined by three factors in combination: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. Experienced in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following main-frame/military aircraft: Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Although a variety of piloting administrative tasks are performed in support of an Army National Guard aviation program, experiences include the abilities to train and instruct others in the piloting of a main-frame military aircraft. Experienced in mission tasking, intelligence reporting, and applying weather information. Experienced in supervising and/or filing of flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning. Experienced in operating aircraft controls and equipment. Experienced in performing or supervising the work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling; search and rescue operations; or surveillance and reconnaissance. Ability to conduct or supervise the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks. Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Experienced in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures, and mission tactics. Must have at least two years experiences in instructing others in a specific air-frame/military aircraft. Competent to complete various piloting administrative tasks performed in support of Army National Guard aviation programs. Skilled to instruct others to pilot military aircraft on a regular and recurring basis. Experienced in the aviation unit quality control management programs; plus, skilled in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and Occupational Safety and Health Administration directives. Experienced in following directives, regulations, accident reports, safety data, and local operating conditions to determine unit safety program requirements. Experienced in coordinating with appropriate agencies to ensure compliance with all applicable safety regulations and programs. Experienced in one or more missions such as, air-to-air; air-to- ground; mortar-to-arm escort; surveillance; reconnaissance; surface attack; killer-scout; target illumination; or laser targeting. Experienced in piloting manned or unmanned aircraft. Experiences may include the traditional "stick and rudder" type controls for piloting aircraft direction, altitude, and speed. Experienced in on-board aircraft instrumentation and aircraft mounted video cameras. Experienced in visual flight-rule type flying and aircraft instrument flying. Experienced in flying simulated "real world" combat and non-combat missions and terrain. Experienced in planning, scheduling, and conducting flights through Federal Aviation Administration controlled national airspace. Experienced in applying operational directives, training directives, instructions, standard operating procedures, and special instructions of National Guard Bureau, United States Army, and gaining commands. Experienced in working independently to plan and perform work assignments. Experienced in completing safe and efficient missions through the use of Operational Risk Management. Experienced in cancelling flying activities, diverting aircraft, dictating mission requirements, approving specific activities, coordinating for airport or airspace utilization with FAA, and/or, directing emergency actions involving unit support agencies. Experienced in using applicable Army aviation regulations, policies, requirements and standards, skills and practices; and, the applying instructional techniques to the training of other pilots in the Army National Guard flying facilities. Experienced in conducting particular combat tactics, missions, or specific main-frame aircraft; or, flying in mountainous terrain, performing tactical remote site evaluation, performing landings on remote sites, providing ground and flight training, and conducting night-vision operations and instruction. Experienced in standardization and evaluation programs, written ground examinations, emergency procedures, and aircrew performance standards in accordance with applicable directives and Federal Aviation Administration certification requirements. Experienced in reviewing and complying with applicable service flight publications and directives for accuracy and currency; and knowledgeable of weapons and tactics for applicable military aircraft. Experienced in maintaining detailed wartime and peacetime contingency plans and supplements for unit mobility, deployment, strange field operations/ employment, and redeployment.

 Yes, I meet the requirements listed above and it is clearly referenced in my resume.
 I am a Warrant Officer.
 I do not meet the requirements stated above.


8.
Warrant Officers: Must have a high school diploma or general education development (GED) diploma. An undergraduate degree from an accredited college/university is optimum. Must have Federal Aviation Administration certifications awarded from accredited civilian aviation programs or must have aviation certifications from accredited military aviation schools. Please choose the appropriate option below.

 Yes, and I understand that at minimum a GED or High School Diploma must be provided with my application, or Transcripts must be provided if unavailable.
 I am a Officer.
 No, I do not meet the education requirements listed above.


9.
Officers: Second and First Lieutenants must be actively pursuing an undergraduate degree with at least 90 validated credit hours in a specified program. For Captains and above, must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college/university. A Graduate Degree from an accredited civilian academic college or from an equivalent professional military education school is optimum. Please choose the appropriate option below.

 Yes, I am a Second or First Lieutenant and am actively pursuing an undergraduate degree with at least 90 validated credit hours in a specified program and I understand that transcripts must be provided with my application.
 Yes, I am a Second or First Lieutenant and currently possess an undergraduate degree or higher with at least 90 validated credit hours in a specified program. I understand that transcripts must be provided with my application.
 Yes, I am a Captain or Major and currently possess an undergraduate degree or higher with at least 90 validated credit hours in a specified program. I understand that transcripts must be provided with my application.
 Yes, I am an Officer and currently possess a Graduate Degree from an accredited civilian academic college or from an equivalent professional military education school. I understand that transcripts must be provided with my application.
 I am a Warrant Officer and I understand that at minimum a GED or High School Diploma must be provided with my application, or Transcripts must be provided if unavailable
 I do not meet the education requirements.


10.
Must have Federal Aviation Administration certifications awarded from accredited civilian aviation programs OR must have aviation certifications from accredited military aviation schools. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes, and I have uploaded FAA/Aviation Certifications with my supporting documents.
 No.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? - OR- Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 Yes
 No


12.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙