Position Title
FUL-Tractor Operator (Seasonal)
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
SSO2-26-13044447-FUL-MER Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 75 miles from the job announcement location:

2700 Refuge Headquarters Rd, Decatur, AL 35603

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Temporary NTE 1039 Hours Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-05 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


Ability to do the Work of a Tractor Operator Without More Than Normal Supervision (Screen Out)


1.
Ability to do the Work of a Tractor Operator Without More Than Normal Supervision (Screen Out). Your responses to this questionnaire and your skills in your resume will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the Tractor Operator, WG-5705-05 duties. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your current level of experience, and training, that you fully possess and demonstrate your ability. SELECT ONLY ONE ANSWER.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION OR YOUR SCORE MAY BE LOWERED.
 I have safely operated farm-type gasoline or diesel-powered tractors with attachments and self-propelled sprayers on flat or rolling terrain. I am a skilled expert and I have performed several different operations such as planting, cultivating, mowing and hauling without supervision or I have instructed others in tractor operations. I have performed preventative maintenance on tractors and equipment (i.e., checking and replenishing fluids to proper levels, examining and changing filters, changing and sharpening blades, lubricating equipment, and making necessary adjustments. I independently performed the duties described above with little supervision.
 I have safely operated farm-type gasoline/diesel powered tractors with attachments and/or self-propelled sprayers on flat or rolling terrain. I have performed tractor operations independently without supervision. I have performed several different operations such as planting, cultivating, mowing and hauling without supervision or I have instructed others in tractor operations. I have performed preventative maintenance on tractors and equipment (i.e., checking and replenishing fluids to proper levels, examining and changing filters, changing and sharpening blades, lubricating equipment, and making necessary adjustments. I independently performed the duties described above under normal supervision.
 I have safely operated farm-type gasoline/diesel powered tractors with limited supervision. I have performed some different operations such as planting, cultivating, mowing and hauling. I have performed operator level preventative maintenance on tractors and equipment.
 I have performed the types of duties described above in responses A, B or C, under close supervision and would require more than normal supervision to perform them. Or, I have performed the duties described in A, B, or C in the past, but don’t describe this work and level of supervision in my resume.
 I do not have experience or training in performing the duties described above.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙