Position Title
AIRPLANE PILOT (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12856940-AF-25-049 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 24, 2025 to Jan 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 AW - 156 ALF SQ) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 AW - 156 ALF SQ) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (2nd Lt/O1 to Lt Col/O5)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-2181-13 Aircraft Pilot.
 I HAVE a competent understanding of the occupation’s basic principles and concepts and a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level.
 I DO NOT HAVE the general experience listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-2181-13 Airplane Pilot.
 I HAVE at least 24 months working experience in civilian aviation programs or military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components) or Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Group, to include 1) piloting or instructing others in piloting, 2) planning, scheduling, and conducting training flights through FAA controlled national airspace, and 3) conducting particular missions and flying specific main-frame aircraft in combat tactics.
 I DO NOT have at least 24 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙