Position Title
MILITARY & FAMILY READINESS SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12922580-AR-T526-011 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions (6 items)
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Employment Criteria
1.
Are you currently a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you claiming Veterans Preference based on a disability? If so, do you require reasonable accommodation?
 Yes
 No
 I do not wish to disclose this information


3.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC A: NG employees at the Joint Staff J9 Service Member Family Services
 AOC B: NG employees in the Joint Staff J9 (This includes Joint Staff J9, Integrated Primary Workforce, Sexual Assault Prevention, and Equal Employment Opportunity)
 AOC C: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC D: All Service Members of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC E: Federal Employees in an Agency outside of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC F: U.S. Citizen Applicants


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience with analyzing problems to identify significant factors, gathering pertinent data, and recognizing solutions; planning and organizing work; and communicating effectively orally and in writing?
 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 24 months experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience can be conducting briefings at the local, unit and state levels to provide necessary information to leadership, commanders, Soldiers, Families, Soldier and Family Readiness Groups (SFRGs) and community partners, coordinating assistance from military, government, and civilian organizations as needed, developing and conducting orientation and training programs for volunteers, including Army Family Team Building, Army Family Action Plan and Operation Ready/Readiness Essentials for Army Leaders.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Do you have experience conducting briefings at the local, unit and state levels to provide necessary information to leadership, commanders, Soldiers, Families, Soldier and Family Readiness Groups (SFRGs) and community partners?


3a.
Please explain your experiences to the question above.


4.
Do you have experience coordinating assistance from military, government, and civilian organizations as needed, developing and conducting orientation and training programs for volunteers, including Army Family Team Building, Army Family Action Plan and Operation Ready/Readiness Essentials for Army Leaders?


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the question above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙