Position Title
MANAGEMENT & PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12950784-26-MT Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-7 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-7 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-05 (or higher) grade level or equivalent, to include experience that has provided the candidate with the knowledge of a wide range of management and/or program analysis tools, techniques and skills to perform complex management and program analysis work. In addition, experience that has provided knowledge of the federal budget and procurement processes.
 I have successfully completed at least one full year of progressively higher level graduate education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree and meet Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) requirements based on: (1) a GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0; (2) a GPA of 3.45 or higher based on the average of required courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; (3) class standing in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or (4) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 I have a combination of experience and education (as described in statements A and B above) that together meet the qualifications requirements for this position.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GG-9 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-9 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-07 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include experience that has provided the candidate with the knowledge of a wide range of management and/or program analysis tools, techniques and skills to perform complex management and program analysis work. In addition, experience that has provided knowledge of the federal budget and procurement processes..
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience required but I have more than one year of graduate level education with a major or subject area related to the position to be filled. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education qualifying for this position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
GG-11 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-09 (or higher) grade level or equivalent, to include experience that has provided the candidate with the knowledge of a wide range of management and/or program analysis tools, techniques and skills to perform complex management and program analysis work. In addition, experience that has provided knowledge of the federal budget and procurement processes..
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience required but I have more than two years of graduate level education with a major or subject area related to the position to be filled. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education qualifying for this position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
GG-12 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-11 (or higher) grade level or equivalent, to include experience that has provided the candidate with the knowledge of a wide range of management and/or program analysis tools, techniques and skills to perform complex management and program analysis work. In addition, experience that has provided knowledge of the federal budget and procurement processes.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙