Position Title
MWR Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13032120 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
This position oversees a diverse portfolio of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs including Fitness, Aquatics, Golf, Food & Beverage, and Navy Getaways. Which statement best describes your experience managing a similar scope of programs?
 Extensive experience (5+ years) managing a complex MWR portfolio with four or more of the program types listed.
 Significant experience (3-4 years) managing a portfolio with two or three of the program types listed.
 Moderate experience (1-2 years) managing one of the specific program types listed.
 Experience is limited to general recreation or hospitality management, not the specific MWR program mix described.
 No experience managing MWR or similar recreation/hospitality programs.


2.
This role provides technical guidance and administrative oversight for a large team. What is the largest number of employees (including direct and indirect reports) you have been responsible for managing?
 50+ employees
 25-49 employees
 10-24 employees
 1-9 employees
 No formal supervisory experience.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in a formal supervisory/managerial role where you were directly responsible for managing other supervisors or managers?
 5 or more years of experience supervising other supervisors/managers.
 3 to 4 years of experience supervising other supervisors/managers.
 1 to 2 years of experience supervising other supervisors/managers.
 Less than 1 year of experience supervising other supervisors/managers.


4.
Select a single option that best describes your professional qualifications. Your resume must clearly support the selection made below.
 I possess a Bachelor’s degree in recreation, business administration, hospitality, or a closely related field, AND I have at least 3 years of progressively responsible professional management experience running a multi-facility hospitality, recreation, or military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) program.
 I do not possess a related Bachelor’s degree, but I have at least 5 years of progressively responsible professional management experience running a multi-facility hospitality, recreation, or military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) program.
 I do not meet either of the requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.

Are you willing and able to meet ALL of the following administrative and legal conditions of employment?

Ability to obtain and maintain a Tier 3 National Agency Check with Inquiries (or Tier 5 for Secret Security Clearance).

Submission of an annual OGE Form-450 Confidential Financial Disclosure Report.

Possession and maintenance of a valid state driver's license.

Availability to work a varied schedule that regularly includes nights, weekends, and holidays, as well as travel up to 10% of the time.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙