Position Title
Acupuncturist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12847849-26-JF Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Tuesday, December 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Acupuncturist position within VISN 8 VA Sunshine Network. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you qualify for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements for the position of Acupuncturist.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: To meet this requirement, the individual must meet one of the requirements below: (1) Master's degree in acupuncture or oriental medicine from a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM) OR (2) Advanced level degree in acupuncture or oriental medicine from a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM). NOTE: Copies of transcripts are required.

Do you meet one of the educational requirements as described above?

 Yes
 No


3.
CERTIFICATION: Acupuncturists hired in the VHA must be board certified through the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM). The board certification must be current, and the acupuncturist must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education.

NOTE: An acupuncturist who fails to maintain the required certificate must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment.

Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as an Acupuncturist on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
Please select the statement that best describes how you meet the certification requirement.

 I am currently certified through the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM).
 I meet the grandfathering provisions and have protected status.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position.


4.
LICENSURE: To meet the licensure requirement, you must possess a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice acupuncture in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia.

NOTE: An acupuncturist who fails to maintain the required license must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment.
Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as an Acupuncturist on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.

Do you meet the licensure requirement as described above?

 I possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice acupuncture in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
 I meet the grandfathering provisions and have protected status.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
BASIC REQUIREMENT FOR GS-09: There are no additional requirements beyond meeting the basic requirements.
Individuals at this grade level are considered to be entry level and are closely supervised. The employee works under the direction of a journey level or higher acupuncturist or other health care providers licensed to perform acupuncture. The acupuncturist provides professional services in accordance with the established treatment plan. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to more experienced staff for a decision or assistance.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


6.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT FOR GS-11: In addition to demonstrating the below knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA), you must also meet the education or experience requirement. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Acupuncturist at the GS-11 grade level.

Ability to screen referrals and direct veterans to other services as appropriate.
Ability to formulate an appropriate differential diagnosis.
Ability to formulate an acupuncture treatment plan independently or with other health care professionals.
Ability to educate patients on health lifestyle changes including nutrition, exercise, sleeping habits, stress management, mind body techniques and other matters related to acupuncture care. This includes the ability to communicate with individuals of varying backgrounds.
Skill in the selection and use of the appropriate acupuncture tools and supplies based on needs of the patient.

 I have successfully completed at least one (1) year of experience as an Acupuncturist equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09 which includes but is not limited to: inserting needles to provide acupuncture treatment and identifying correct anatomical and proportional point locations based on patients' anatomy and positions, contraindications, and precautions related to treatments, such as intradermal needles and moxibustion.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in acupuncture or oriental medicine.
 I do not possess the experience and/or KSA requirements described above.


7.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives, other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information can result in you being fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) and/or removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). Any information you give may be investigated and responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in you not being considered for this position.

Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith?

 Yes. I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙