Position Title
Supv General Attorney
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-27-13084589-EXC
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 30, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
COE
.
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No
2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No
3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No
MQ Only DD RI525130 13084589 Exc
.
Thank you for your interest in this Supv General Attorney position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Supv General Attorney at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts to your application package under the document type "Transcripts" for verification).
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.
2.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. commonwealth, U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia?
 I am a current member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. (NOTE: Applicants must submit a copy of a certificate showing they are a current member in good standing with the bar of a State, Territory of the US, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, together with a sworn (notarized) statement by the candidate that his or her fitness to practice law or conduct as an attorney has never been challenged in any jurisdiction, OR if either has been challenged, a sworn (notarized) statement concerning the facts and circumstances together with any explanation the applicant may deem appropriate may be submitted. As an alternative to a sworn (notarized) statement, a declaration under penalty of perjury may be submitted in the following format: "I declare (or certify, verify or state) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the foregoing is true and correct...executed on (Date)...(Your Signature)." (28 U.S.C. 1746). This statement and certificate must be submitted/attached with your application/resume and dated within 3 months of the date your application/resume is submitted/attached.
 No, I am not a current member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Supv General Attorney at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have three or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. One year of the required professional legal experience is equivalent to the GS-14 under the General Schedule or other pay systems which includes providing senior-level legal advice on federal contracting matters; conducting legal analysis and recommendations on contract claims, disputes, and bid protests; preparing litigation reports and supporting federal litigation through research, factual development, and coordination with Department of Justice or U.S. Attorneys; delivering authoritative ethics guidance, including reviewing financial disclosures and applying the Joint Ethics Regulation; and supervising attorneys and legal staff by assigning work, reviewing legal products, and offering technical oversight across a geographically dispersed organization.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
