Position Title
Automotive Mechanic
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-MRSD-26-13078012
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center . To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service? To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect: • Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND, • Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No
FLETC Data
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No
2.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
 Career Fair
 Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
 Magazine
 Newspaper
 Radio
 TV
 Poster
 Private Employment Office
 State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
 Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
 Agency or other Federal Government recruitment at school or college
 Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
 Religious organization
 College, university, or career placement counselor
 Friend or relative working for this agency
 Friend or relative not working for this agency
 USAJOBS
 Professional Association
 Publication
 Conference
 College Event
 Private information service
 LinkedIn
 Other
3.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above
4.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 Quality Step Increase
 Special Act or Time Off Award
 Performance Award
 Honorary Award
 Letter of Commendation
 None of the above
5.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
6.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No
7.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.
Maintenance Mechanic, WG-5823-11
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.
Are you a current employee of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC)?
 Yes
 No
2.
Please describe your experience as it pertains to performing duties of an Automotive Mechanic, WG-5823-11. The applicant must have experience refers to knowledge of various techniques for diagnosing, removing, replacing, cleaning, and installing a wide variety of parts, components, and accessories. Must have experience with performing safety inspections; familiarity with diagnostic tools; performing preventative maintenance such as oil changes, filter changes, fluid changes, topping off fluids and greasing chassis; identifying wear patterns on tires and wheels, inspecting steering and suspension components such as tie rods, idler arm, pitman arm, rack n pinion, ball joints, shocks, structs, control arm bushings and coil springs; replacing belts and idler pulleys; repairing coolant leaks from hoses, water pump, heater cores, and radiators in cooling systems; repairing and recharging air conditioning, replacing hoses, compressor, condenser, evaporator, expansion valves, orifice tube filter and receiver drier; diagnosing brake systems, ability to perform engine performance diagnosis; utilizing specialty tools to diagnose complex electrical issues; diagnose and repair engine components such as intake manifolds, cylinder heads and gaskets, exhaust components, and complete engine replacement; diagnose and repair transmission faults such as torque convertors, solenoids, governors, seals, u-joints and drive shaft; axels; body work, welding, equipment unique to golf carts, gators, ATVs, water craft, trailers, etc.
 I possess all the experience described above.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No
