Position Title
Supervisory Attorney-Advisor (Division Director)
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
DE-13001777-26-SM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).




 Yes
 No


3.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?


 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you have previously improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the Agency's policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if [promoted to/hired for] this role.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Please provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Basic Requirement - Carefully read the following descriptions and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the 0905 series.
 I have earned a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association AND I am an active member of the Bar.
 I have training equivalent to a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) AND am an active member of the Bar.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications GS-15: Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-15 Supervisory Attorney-Advisor position.
 I have four years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service.
 I have three years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service and possess a second law degree (LL.M.) which can substitute for one year of experience.
 I have two years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service and possess both a second (LL.M.) and third (J.S.D.) professional law degree which may be substituted for one year of experience each
 I do not have education or experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙