Position Title
Supervisory International Trade Analyst
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-26-50-SP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. International Trade Commission employee with competitive status?
 Yes
 No


3.
To qualify at the GS-15 level, applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14, or equivalent level, in the Federal service. Specialized experience would include progressively responsible professional experience sufficient to show a normal level of progression and senior-level knowledge of the occupation. It should include specific experience: (a) in-depth knowledge of industrial manufacturing and processing techniques; production, distribution, and market dynamics; accounting principles; macroeconomics; and theories and techniques of economic, statistical, and financial analysis, particularly as these apply to import injury, trade remedy, antidumping/countervailing duty investigations or analysis; (b) supervisory or project coordination assignments that involved a staff of professional analysts and/or economists, which required developing creative and effective analytical approaches and research themes for examining international trade in services or related sectors;(c) proficient experience in working collaboratively and coordinating a variety of specialized and complex analytical projects regarding international trade; (d) expert experience preparing and reviewing data collection vehicles (questionnaires or detailed surveys) requesting a substantial volume of detailed, pertinent industry and economic data;(e) outstanding communication skills; and (f) at this level, you would lead a multi-disciplinary team in performing research, analysis, and reporting on trade remedy investigations with responsibility for determining methods and scope for accomplishing tasks. Do you meet this experience requirement?
 I have one-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 obtained in the federal or private sector which includes: (a) in-depth knowledge of industrial manufacturing and processing techniques; production, distribution, and market dynamics; accounting principles; macroeconomics; and theories and techniques of economic, statistical, and financial analysis, particularly as these apply to import injury, trade remedy, antidumping/countervailing duty investigations or analysis; (b) supervisory or project coordination assignments that involved a staff of professional analysts and/or economists, which required developing creative and effective analytical approaches and research themes for examining international trade in services or related sectors;(c) proficient experience in working collaboratively and coordinating a variety of specialized and complex analytical projects regarding international trade; (d) expert experience preparing and reviewing data collection vehicles (questionnaires or detailed surveys) requesting a substantial volume of detailed, pertinent industry and economic data;(e) outstanding communication skills; and (f) at this level, you would lead a multi-disciplinary team in performing research, analysis, and reporting on trade remedy investigations with responsibility for determining methods and scope for accomplishing tasks.
 I do not meet any of the qualifications listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙