Position Title
Auditor (Performance)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
IG-26-13024771-EJW-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the following eligibility questions and carefully-Mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered. Eligibility options claimed must be supported with proper documentation by the closing date of the announcement. Please reference the required documents section listed in the vacancy announcement.

Failure to select at least one eligibility below and provide documentation proof of such eligibility will result in your application being ineligible for further consideration. If you are unsure how to answer the eligibility questions, please email the HR help desk two days before the closing date of this vacancy at DOIOIG_VACANCIES@DOIOIG.GOV.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution?  Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree, due to military service obligation, have six years after degree completion to apply.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit transcripts that include date of degree conferral.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Sacramento, CA
 B. Lakewood, CO
 C. Herndon, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is not a remote work position. You will be required to physically report to the duty station stated in the announcement on a regular basis. Partial work-from-home flexibilities (i.e., telework) may be authorized.
 I understand the statement above and wish to proceed with my application.
 I am no longer interested in this position and wish to withdraw my application.


Assessment 1
Answer each question below based on the level of your experience and education. Your resume and education documentation will be reviewed to ensure they support your responses.


1.
From the following, please select the response that describes your eligibility under the Pathways Recent Graduates Program:

 As of the closing date of this announcement, I am a recent graduate who has received a qualified associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying education institution within the past 2 years. I have uploaded transcripts that support this response.
 As of the closing date of this announcement, I am a veteran who was precluded from applying within 2 years of meeting the above educational requirements due to military service obligation. I have been discharged/released from active duty within the last 2 years, and it has not been more than 6 years as of the closing date of this announcement from the date I originally met the educational requirements. I have uploaded my transcripts and my DD-214 with my application for verification of eligibility.
 None of the above.


2.
I currently hold a cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale.

 True
 False


3.
Select the response that matches your experience and/or education. Submission of documentation, such as transcripts, is required to support your claims.

 I have a degree in auditing, business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting. My application includes transcript(s) to verify degree conferral.
 I have a combination of education and experience, with at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. I ALSO have a certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination. I have submitted documentation to support this.
 I have a combination of education and experience, with at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. I ALSO have completed the requirements for a degree that included at least 15 semester hours in auditing or accounting. I have submitted documentation to support this.
 None of the above.


4.
Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or experience for the GS-7 level:
 I have 1 year of graduate-level education OR a Bachelor's degree with superior academic achievement as defined by OPM. I have included transcripts to support this.
 I have 1 year of experience at the GS-05 grade level performing ALL of the following: 1) Reviewing data or records to infer conclusions, AND 2) Preparing thorough write-ups of work performed, observations made, or conclusions drawn, such as writing detailed meeting minutes or oral interview notes or documenting observable conditions
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above that, when totaled together, sufficiently meets the minimum requirement for the GS-7 level of this position. I have included transcripts to support this.
 None of the above.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or experience for the GS-9 level:

 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or a L.L.B. or J.D. I have included transcripts to support this.
 I have 1 year of experience at the GS-07 grade level performing ALL of the following: 1) Assisting in project planning by identifying areas susceptible to weakness or risk; 2) Researching laws, regulations, guidelines, policies, and/or procedures as part of an assignment, AND 3) Preparing written summaries of work performed and conclusions reached, complete with supporting documents, that contribute to a final written report on a subject matter, such as an audit report or research paper.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above that, when totaled together, sufficiently meets the minimum requirement for the GS-9 level of this position. I have included transcripts to support this.
 None of the above.


6.
Do you have experience in data analytics or data visualization?

 Yes, and I have outlined this experience in my resume or I have highlighted which course(s) in my transcript provided this experience.
 No, but I would like to learn.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙