Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Authorization Quality Review Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
405-26-HC-13028257-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Veterans Service Representative (Authorization Quality Review Specialist), GS-0996-11 and GS-0996-12, position with Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA).


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-10 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


3.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as experience performing training, analysis, or information systems duties within a claims management process. The experience should be substantive and relevant and may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector. Examples include but are not limited to: 

Conducting evaluations and quality reviews to determine authorization quality and accuracy against established standards; 

Compiling and presenting quality trend information to management to support decision-making; 

Developing training materials and delivering training to address identified performance deficiencies; 

Providing quality-review feedback and guidance to staff to correct unsatisfactory performance. 

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-10 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or I have completed three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


5.
To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as experience independently performing advanced training, analyst, or information systems duties within a claims management process, with responsibility for identifying systemic issues and recommending program-level solutions. The experience should be substantive and relevant and may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector. Examples include but are not limited to:
Independently conducting evaluations and quality reviews of authorization actions. Identifies root causes of errors and process weaknesses;
Analyzing quality trend data to identify patterns and develop actionable recommendations for performance, process, or training changes. Presents these findings and recommendations to management or leadership;
Developing, delivering, and evaluating the effectiveness of training materials, including recommending modifications based on outcome data;
Analyzing performance deficiencies and quality trends to identify knowledge/skill gaps and developing corrective strategies or interventions to close those gaps;
Providing quality-review services, feedback, and guidance to staff, including mentoring or providing technical guidance to less experienced reviewers to correct unsatisfactory performance.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 or higher in the Federal Service.
 My experience is not described above.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


6.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙