Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13031761-26-FB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Montgomery, AL
 AL. Tuscaloosa, AL
 AM. Newington, CT
 AN. West Haven, CT
 AO. Wilmington, DE
 AP. Washington, DC
 AQ. Bay Pines, FL
 AR. Gainesville, FL
 AS. Miami, FL
 AT. Orlando, FL
 AU. Tampa, FL
 AV. West Palm Beach, FL
 AW. Atlanta, GA
 AX. Augusta, GA
 AY. Dublin, GA
 AZ. Togus, ME
 BA. Baltimore, MD
 BB. Linthicum, MD
 BC. Perry Point, MD
 BD. Bedford, MA
 BE. Brockton, MA
 BF. Northampton, MA
 BG. Manchester, NH
 BH. East Orange, NJ
 BI. Lyons, NJ
 B. Albany, NY
 C. Bath, NY
 D. Bronx, NY
 E. Brooklyn, NY
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. Canandaigua, NY
 H. Montrose, NY
 I. New York, NY
 J. Northport, NY
 K. Rome, NY
 L. Syracuse, NY
 M. Asheville, NC
 N. Durham, NC
 O. Fayetteville, NC
 P. Salisbury, NC
 Q. Altoona, PA
 R. Aspinwall, PA
 S. Butler, PA
 T. Coatesville, PA
 U. Erie, PA
 V. Lebanon, PA
 W. Philadelphia, PA
 X. Wilkes Barre, PA
 Y. San Juan, PR
 Z. Providence, RI
 AA. Charleston, SC
 AC. Columbia, SC
 AD. White River Junction, VT
 AE. Hampton, VA
 AF. Richmond, VA
 AG. Salem, VA
 AH. Beckley, WV
 AI. Clarksburg, WV
 AJ. Huntington, WV
 AK. Martinsburg, WV


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 1, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 1 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


5.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 2, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 2 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


6.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 4, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 4 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


7.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 5, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 5 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


8.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 6, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 6 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


9.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 7, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 7 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


10.
I am a current permanent employee of Network Contracting Office (NCO) 8, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current NCO 8 reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


11.
I am a current permanent employee of Regional Procurement Office (RPO) East Administrative Staff, and I understand that I am applying for a permanent position within my current RPO East Administrative Staff reporting structure.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Specialist position with the Federal government. Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Applicants must submit transcripts to verify they meet the Basic Requirement for this position. Transcripts must depict your name, the name of the college/university, courses completed, degree, and conferred date. Applicants who fail to submit transcripts that depict all the required information will be rated ineligible.


1.
Basic Requirements: Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years' experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position.

-AND-

A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.

Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade.

Waiver: When filling a specific vacant position, the senior procurement executive of the selecting agency, at his or her discretion, may waive any or all of the requirements of Paragraphs A and B above if the senior procurement executive certifies that the applicant possesses significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience. With respect to each waiver granted under this Paragraph D, the senior procurement executive must document for the record the basis of the waiver. If an individual is placed in a position in an agency on the basis of a waiver, the agency may later reassign that individual to another position at the same grade within that agency without additional waiver action.
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Contract Specialist GS-13 work at the level(s) or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 GS-13: I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience includes experience with: Serving as senior or lead Contract Specialist for an agency/department, recommending the appropriate contract type or contract method for the product or service being procured. Providing guidance regarding complex contracts to other Contract Specialists in a contracting office to include firm-fixed price, firm-fixed price with economic price adjustments and cost reimbursement. Providing guidance and training to other Contract Specialists on contract methods to include simplified acquisitions, sealed bidding, negotiations, cost sharing, multiple awards, commercial items and special provisions. Utilizing and training other Contract Specialists on electronic systems for contract writing, contract management, contract reporting, and financial management in accordance with agency/department and Federal (or similar) policies. Negotiating with vendors to acquire products or services or to address technical requirements, cost/pricing, or other terms and conditions. Interpreting and applying Federal laws (or similar), acquisition regulations, policies, contract law and procedures applicable to acquisition and contract administration which includes change orders, supplemental agreements, terminations, claims, and close out of contracts. Establishing and monitoring acquisition milestones to ensure progress toward award. Serving as contract administrator on awarded contracts and conducts post-award conferences to negotiate required changes to contract conditions to protect the agency/department.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held; and Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙