Position Title
RANGE OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13024478-AR-26-549 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position requirements, education and experience (general and specialized) needed. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
What is your current status with the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration; experience compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information; progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled; experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to the GS-7 level; experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled; a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management; experience developing administrative procedures (MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences, if using experience to qualify)

-OR-

B) Master's or equivalent graduate degree -or- 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree -or- LL.B. or J.D., if related. (Must submit transcripts with application, if using education to qualify.)

Do you meet one of the specialized experience or education requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the requirements listed in item A.
 Yes, I meet one of the requirements listed in item B.
 No, I do not meet the requirements listed in item A or B.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTORS
In additional to the general and specialized experience, applicants must also have the following experience and training:
Experience applying standard operating procedures (SOPs), safety regulations, and environmental compliance guidelines in a structured environment.
Experience inspecting, issuing, and maintaining accountability of equipment, packets, or supplies for teams or units.
Experience operating on a military firing range.
Experience enforcing safety protocols.
Training on how to initiate emergency responses to a situation.
Experience conducting safety briefings.
***(These selective placement factors MUST be addressed on your resume to be considered for this position)***


Do you meet the requirements under selective placement factors listed above?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E1 - E9)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


6.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/reinstatement?


7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙