Position Title
Electronics Industrial Control Mechanic
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-12945110-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


4.
Due to the nature of this position, employees are required to work both planned and unscheduled overtime. Are you willing to work overtime as required by management to meet work requirements?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires the employee to use personal protective equipment provided by the employer. Are you willing to use employer-provided PPE as required?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Electronic Industrial Control Mechanic position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Machinist Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Electronic Industrial Control Mechanic duties to include: (1) Maintain, test and repair various types of electronically controlled industrial equipment and/or machinery; (2) Experience with circuits and basic logic circuits to power, timing and motion controls; and; (3) Use of electrical and electronic block diagrams, wiring diagrams and/or schematics. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I am able to perform the full range of Electronic Industrial Control Mechanic duties to include: (1) Maintain, test and repair various types of electronically controlled industrial equipment and/or machinery; (2) Experience with circuits and basic logic circuits to power, timing and motion controls; and; (3) Use of electrical and electronic block diagrams, wiring diagrams and/or schematics. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I am able to perform common Electronic Industrial Control Mechanic duties to include: (1) Maintain, test and repair various types of electronically controlled industrial equipment and/or machinery; (2) Experience with circuits and basic logic circuits to power, timing and motion controls.
 I have the ability to perform simple Electronic Industrial Control Mechanic duties such as maintain, test and repair various types of electronically controlled industrial equipment and/or machinery.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙