Position Title
Administrative Assistant (OA)
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
26-AFRH-12980545-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To be qualified for this position at the GS-09 level, you must have at least one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service performing administrative support functions. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Ensuring administrative support work is performed in compliance with relevant regulations, guidelines, and policies; OR
Creating, proofing, and editing documents; OR
Monitoring and, adjusting budget accounts; OR
Procuring items for the office and/or department; OR
Ensuring the accuracy and completeness of time and leave documents; OR
Answering general information questions from customers and/or visitors.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-08 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-08 level as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires a certified typist. Do you self-certify that you can type at least 40 words per minute?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following have you performed to manage a senior executive's calendar as a regular part of your job? Select all that apply.
 A. Scheduled appointments
 B. Scheduled meetings and conferences
 C. Arranged client visits
 D. Prioritized tasks
 E. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have experience using an automated travel system to coordinate and manage employee travel?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have experience procuring items using an office credit card?
 Yes
 No


6.
Which software application(s) are you proficient with (proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality/capabilities)? Select all that apply.
 A. MS Word or other word processing software such as WordPerfect, WordPro, etc.
 B. Microsoft PowerPoint or similar presentation software
 C. E-Mail (e.g. Microsoft Outlook, Gmail, etc.)
 D. Microsoft Access or similar database software
 E. Microsoft Excel or similar spreadsheet software
 F. None of the above


7.
From the list below, select the ONE choice that most closely represents your experience in coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions.
 I independently handle multiple actions on any given day and coordinate work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring callers to appropriate subject matter personnel; preparing request for personnel actions; preparing award nominations and ensuring proper approvals; following up on pending or required actions; maintaining supervisor's calendar for appointments; and preparing, reviewing, and reconciling budgets, payroll, travel, and training documents.
 I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements.
 I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, maintaining supervisor's calendar, and directing visitors or other employees to appropriate person or office for assistance.
 I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.


8.
Which ONE of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines?
 I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are of high priority to the organization. My work assignments are most generally completed within assigned deadlines and milestones. When additional time is needed, I am normally able to obtain it from my team leader or supervisor.
 I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I am normally capable of resolving the conflicts independently or by involving the team leader or supervisor.
 In addition to managing multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


9.
From the following choices select all that you have routinely and successfully performed at work.
 A. Arranged meetings, conferences and workshops.
 B. Maintained office filing systems
 C. Tracked date sensitive correspondence or other information requiring public response using and automated or manual tracking system
 D. Prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance, and equipment
 E. Independently determined office supplies to requisition based on inventory of supplies, staff survey, and requests.
 F. None of the choices above


10.
Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings and conferences?
 A. Arranged for meeting facilities, set dates, notified participants, and arranged to provide the necessary supplies and equipment that will be used.
 B. Arranged travel and secured authorization for expense reimbursements for guest attendees, speakers, or consultants.
 C. Assisted staff in arranging travel and obtaining expense reimbursements.
 D. Drafted the meeting or conference agenda, drafted presentation outlines, assembled supporting materials and prepared formal presentations slides and handouts.
 E. Arranged functions held for conference participants.
 F. Attended meetings or conferences, recorded minutes and actions items, published final minutes, and followed up to ensure that commitments made were carried out within agreed upon time frames.
 G. None of the above


11.
From the following choices, please select all that reflect your experience administering a time and attendance reporting system.
 A. Maintained records of attendance, leave, and overtime authorized by my supervisor for staff members.
 B. Reviewed and reconciled time and attendance records into automated timekeeping or payroll systems.
 C. Advised and assisted employees, supervisors, and managers in completing time and attendance forms and resolving errors concerning work schedules, premium pay and leave.
 D. Received formal training in time and attendance recordkeeping but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job.
 E. Trained others on time and attendance rules and procedures.
 F. None of the above


12.
From the list below, select those tasks you have performed independently to produce products using computer systems and software. Select all that apply.
 A. Correspondence using word processing software
 B. Formal briefings or presentation slides using presentation software
 C. Final reports containing tables, charts and graphics
 D. Spreadsheets to maintain budgets and perform advanced financial tracking functions
 E. Templates or Macros using word processing software
 F. None of the above


13.
Which of the following records management activities have you performed as a regular part of your job? Select all that apply.
 A. Independently responded to records management inquiries.
 B. Analyzed and prepared records disposition requests
 C. Conducted records management inventories of offices' records
 D. Analyzed the results of records management inventories and followed up on pending or required actions
 E. Provided guidance on records management procedures and requirements
 F. None of the above


14.
Select all of the choices below that describe your experience in locating and compiling information for reports/briefings.
 A. Gathered materials to be routed for information or distributed at recurring meetings
 B. Compiled factual information from sources within assigned work area
 C. Filed indices of central systems for very specific information
 D. Presented information in a logical fashion
 E. Collected, compiled, and retrieved information from various sources internal or external to an organization
 F. Compiled relevant information and presented it in a logical format that allows for ease of interpretation by others
 G. Collected, compiled, and retrieved information from Intranet or Internet sources. Compiled relevant information into a logical format for ease of use by supervisor or members of the team
 H. None of the above


15.
Choose the example(s) that apply to your experience analyzing data and information when preparing reports and briefings for senior officials.
 A. Analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared
 B. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material and clarity
 C. Analyzed trends and other information to identify issues, problems, challenges, and options
 D. Analyzed trends and other information to formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports that I prepared
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks


16.
Select the statement(s) that describes your experience communicating orally with a variety of customers in order to obtain and provide information. Select all that apply.
 A. Greeted visitors, relayed messages, and answered and redirected telephone calls
 B. Questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information, and explain non-technical procedures to others
 C. Given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff or small project work group meetings, or meetings with fellow team members)
 D. Assisted disgruntled customers and/or directed them to the appropriate source for information
 E. Acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations on office administrative matters
 F. Served as a point of contact for briefings, meetings and/or conferences disseminating a variety of information
 G. None of the above


17.
Which ONE of the following best describes your experience preparing written correspondence?
 Independently composed and typed routine letters and otherwise prepared in final form a wide variety of correspondence, documentation and forms necessary to the operation of the office
 Composed correspondence based on general instructions where minor adaptations are made to standard format
 Prepared correspondence using a standard format or template, or where specific instructions are provided by my supervisor
 Proofed and edited reports, memorandum, and other communications
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙