Position Title
SUPPLY SYSTEMS ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12890072-AR-26-298 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you an employee of the Montana Army National Guard with duties currently assigned within the G8 Supplies and Services?
 Yes
 No


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-7. Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc. Experience involving the control of supply stocks and accounting for equipment. Knowledge of supply functions, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Experience in cost estimates, budgets, or funding management. Experience conducting extensive searches for required information; reconstruct records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support. Experience requiring person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. (MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences if using experience to qualify for this position)

-OR-

B) A master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (MUST submit transcripts with application showing proof of education if using education to qualify for this position.)

Do you meet the specialized experience or education requirements listed above?

 Yes, I qualify using option A.
 Yes, I qualify using option B.
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E1 - E7)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙