Position Title
Maintenance Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13042262 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have and are you able to maintain a valid driver's license?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have the ability to care for, check fluids and determine the proper operation of a vehicle.?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your specific general experience in multiple trades: Carpentry, Electrical, Painting, Plumbing, HVAC, Vehicle Mechanics, Heavy Equipment Operator and Metal Working.
 Specific experience that involves 5 or more of the above.
 Specific experience that involves 4 of the above.
 Specific experience that involves 3 of the above.
 Specific experience that involves 2 of the above.
 No specific experience but have general maintenance knowledge with the capability to learn.
 No experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have at least one year of experience in a maintenance/trade position?
 Yes
 No


5.
Describe your experience with small construction or renovation projects. Demonstrated ability to read and understand construction drawings, do material take-offs/estimating, knowledge of plumbing and electrical codes.
 Demonstrated ability to perform all the above skills.
 Experience that involves some of the above, but not all items.
 No experience.


6.
Describe your experience with grounds maintenance and snow removal.
 Extensive experience with both.
 Some experience with both.
 Extensive experience with one.
 Some experience with one.
 No experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙