Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
ST-12995783-26-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
1. Are you a current Federal civilian employee who holds or has previously held a permanent, career or career-conditional position, in the Competitive Service with equal or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

OR

2. Are you a former Federal civilian employee who previously held a permanent, career or career-conditional position, in the Competitive Service with equal or higher promotion potential as the position being announced? (Those that were on a career-conditional appointment when separated must be within 3 years of the date of separation or a preference eligible.)

OR

3. Are you a former Federal civilian employee who previously held a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service, separated from the Federal Government over a year ago, and your last performance rating on record as a Federal employee was at least Fully Successful (or equivalent)? (Those that were on a career-conditional appointment when separated must be within 3 years of the date of separation or a preference eligible.)

To verify your eligibility for items 1 or 2 above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
a remark documenting your promotion potential.
To verify your eligibility for item 3 above, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status AND your last Federal performance appraisal plan.
Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
Your last Federal performance appraisal plan must reflect:
Rating of Fully Successful (or equivalent)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


4.
(1) Are you the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit a copy of your spouse's active military orders and documentation verifying marriage, for example a marriage certificate.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


6.
Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:
complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND
receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND
return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?
For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


7.
Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous position's stated full performance level(s)?
OR

Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s)? 
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


8.
Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?
 
-OR-
 
Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?
 
-OR-
 
Are you a current or former limited non-career appointee with the Foreign Service and have at least 48 months of continuous service, a performance rating of satisfactory or better, and if a former employee, no more than a one year break in service since your qualifying appointment?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of all Notification of Personnel Actions, Standard Form 50s (SF-50) and performance appraisals that demonstrates you meet all the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?
 
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee? 
-OR-

Are you eligible under another Miscellaneous Authority Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) and/or other documentation reflecting your status and eligibility.
 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


14.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability that makes you eligible for Schedule A hiring authority?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide "proof of a disability" documentation signed and dated by your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits; i.e., certification that you are an individual with an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability, and can be considered for employment under the Schedule A hiring authority 5 CFR 213.3102(u).
 Yes
 No


15.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


16.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years);
are a disabled veteran;
served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15. Note: VRA applies to any grade level up to and including a GS-11 or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eloy Immigration Court, Eloy, AZ
 AB. Florence Immigration Court, Florence, AZ
 AW. Phoenix Immigration Court, Phoenix, AZ
 AX. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 AY. Adelanto Immigration Court, Adelanto, CA
 AZ. Concord Immigration Court, Concord, CA
 BA. Imperial Immigration Court, Imperial, CA
 BB. Los Angeles Immigration Court (N. Los Angeles Street) / West Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 BC. Sacramento Immigration Court, Sacramento, CA
 BD. Otay Mesa Immigration Court, San Diego, CA
 BE. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego County, CA
 BF. San Francisco SPC Immigration Court, San Francisco, CA
 BG. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 BH. Los Angeles Immigration Court (Van Nuys Blvd), Van Nuys, CA
 BI. Aurora Immigration Court, Aurora, CO
 BJ. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 BK. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford, CT
 BL. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 BM. Miami Krome (Detained) Immigration Court, Miami Gardens, FL
 BN. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 BO. Atlanta Immigration Court (Ted Turner Drive), Atlanta, GA
 BP. Atlanta Immigration Court (W. Peachtree Street), Atlanta, GA
 BQ. Stewart Immigration Court, Lumpkin, GA
 BR. Honolulu Immigration Court, Honolulu, HI
 BS. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 BT. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 B. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 C. LaSalle Immigration Court, Jena, LA
 D. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 E. Oakdale Immigration Court, Oakdale, LA
 F. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 G. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 H. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 I. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 J. Detroit Immigration Court, Detroit, MI
 K. Fort Snelling Immigration Court, Fort Snelling, MN
 L. Kansas City Immigration Court, Kansas City, MO
 M. Omaha Immigration Court, Omaha, NE
 N. Las Vegas Immigration Court, Las Vegas, NV
 O. Elizabeth Immigration Court, Elizabeth, NJ
 P. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 Q. Otero Immigration Court, Chaparral, NM
 R. Batavia Immigration Court, Batavia, NY
 S. Buffalo Immigration Court, Buffalo, NY
 T. Ulster Immigration Court, Napanoch, NY
 U. New York Immigration Court (Broadway)/ (Federal Plaza) / (Varick), New York, NY
 V. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 W. Saipan Immigration Court, Saipan, Mariana Island, MP
 X. Cleveland Immigration Court, Cleveland, OH
 Y. Portland Immigration Court, Portland, OR
 Z. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 AA. Guaynabo (San Juan) Immigration Court, Guaynabo, PR
 AC. Memphis Immigration Court, Memphis, TN
 AD. Conroe Immigration Court, Conroe, TX
 AE. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas County, TX
 AF. El Paso Immigration Court/ El Paso SPC Immigration Court, El Paso County, TX
 AG. Fort Worth IAC Immigration Court, Fort Worth, TX
 AH. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 AI. Houston Immigration Court (Jefferson Street), Houston, TX
 AJ. Houston Immigration Court (Greenspoint Park), Houston, TX
 AK. Houston Immigration Court (South Gessner Road), Houston, TX
 AL. Laredo Immigration Court, Laredo, TX
 AM. Port Isabel Immigration Court, Los Fresnos, TX
 AN. Pearsall Immigration Court, Pearsall, TX
 AO. San Antonio Immigration Court, San Antonio, TX
 AP. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, West Valley City, UT
 AQ. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 AR. Falls Church IAC Immigration Court, Falls Church, VA
 AS. Richmond IAC Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 AT. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA
 AU. Seattle Immigration Court, Seattle, WA
 AV. Tacoma Immigration Court, Tacoma, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services) position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-09 Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services).
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service, performing 3 of the 4 following duties: 1.) Generating, pulling, organizing, assembling, and providing required information in a case management environment. 2.) Experience with managing case management systems. 3.) Processing legal correspondence and legal documents. 4.) Processing inquiries, notices, and scheduling matters.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or LL.B. or J.D., that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the full amount of experience described in A above or the full amount of graduate education described in B above. However, I have a percentage of the experience and a percentage of the education which when combined totals 100% of the necessary experience and education needed to qualify for this position. (Only graduate education beyond one year, i.e., 18 semester hours, may be combined with experience under this provision.) NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-11, Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services).
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service, performing 3 of the 4 following duties: 1.Generating, pulling, organizing, assembling, and providing required information in a case management environment. 2.Analyzing and evaluating administrative records for final adjudication. 3.Processing inquiries, notices, and scheduling matters in a high-volume environment. 4.Processing documents related to legal proceedings.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the full amount of experience described in A above or the full amount of graduate education described in B above. However, I have a percentage of the experience and a percentage of the education which when combined totals 100% of the necessary experience and education needed to qualify for this position. (Only graduate education beyond two years, i.e., 36 semester hours, may be combined with experience under this provision.) NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Competency: None


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙