Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-CC-SR-26-12897080 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status or who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury?
If so, you may be eligible to be considered for a noncompetitive appointment.

Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation: https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-certain-military-spouses-eligibility

Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a military spouse? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


4.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


5.

Are you an individual with a documented intellectual, severe physical, or psychiatric disability that substantially limits one or more major life activities? If so, you may be eligible for employment through a Schedule A appointment. 

In order to be eligible, documentation of the disability is required. Documentation of eligibility for employment under Schedule A can be obtained from a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional certified by a state, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory to practice medicine); a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (i.e., state or private); or any Federal agency, state agency, or agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits. The letter must include official office logo, stamp, or letterhead of a medical professional or it is invalid. Please visit OPM's website for sample letters. Learn more about Schedule A eligibility. 

Applying under "Schedule A" can be an expedited way to get a federal job, but it is only one of many options that may be available. You will still have to compete with other eligible applicants and meet all requirements of the position including the ability to perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodations. 

Based on the above, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a Schedule A appointment? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

A. Yes

B. No

 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Montgomery County, MD


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Clinical Laboratory Scientist Specialty Areas
1.
This vacancy is for multiple positions in multiple specialty areas of Clinical Laboratory Science. Please check all specialties that you would like to be considered for.
 A. Chemistry
 B. Hematology
 C. Microbiology
 D. Immunology
 E. Sterility
 F. Blood Banking
 G. Human Leukocyte Antigen
 H. Quality


Work Location
1.
Please select the location in which you are applying for. Multiple locations may be selected.
 A. NIH Clinical Center, Montgomery County, Maryland
 B. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Phoenix, Arizona


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-0644-9/11 position at our agency. For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience, training, or ability. For the purposes of this assessment, an expert is a person, through education and experience, who has a comprehensive and authoritative knowledge of or skill in a particular area.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education requirements for a Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-0644-09/11 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I possess a Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from a regionally accredited college/university including courses in biological science, chemistry and mathematics, AND successful completion of a Medical Laboratory Scientist/Clinical Laboratory Scientist program accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.
 I qualify for this position because I completed a full 4-year course of study that included 12 months in a college or hospital-based medical technology program or medical technology school approved by a recognized accrediting organization. The professional medical technology curriculum may have consisted of a 1-year post- bachelor's certificate program or the last 1 or 2 years of a 4-year program of study culminating in a bachelor's in medical technology.
 I qualify for this position because I have a Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from an accredited college/university, including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one semester in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one semester in organic or biochemistry), one semester (one quarter) of mathematics, AND five years of full time acceptable clinical laboratory experience in Blood Banking, Chemistry, Hematology, microbiology, Immunology and Urinalysis/Body Fluid.
 My education does not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualifications requirements of a Clinical Laboratory Scientist position at the GS-09 level as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have completed two (2) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree that is directly related to the duties of this position.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have at least one (1) year of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: Reviewing and evaluating clinical laboratory procedures; recognizing problems such as interfering substances and new organisms; performing specialized and technically demanding analytical procedures for diagnostic and research purposes; performing Quality Assurance functions in support of laboratory supervisor; recognizing deficiencies and proposing solutions; participating in laboratory proficiency testing programs; evaluating, modifying or adapting new methods or revising standard techniques to improve quantitativeness, accuracy, precision, specificity or proficiency of analyses.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have a combination of post-baccalaureate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My education and experience do not match the choices above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualifications requirements of a Clinical Laboratory Scientist position at the GS-11 level as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have completed three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctorate degree that is directly related to the duties of this position.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have at least one (1) year of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: Performing specialized and technically demanding analytical procedures for diagnostic and research purposes; identifying and addressing issues in testing that may affect results, such as interfering substances, disease condition, limitations of the test procedure, or other problems in the test system; interacting directly with patient care physicians in discussing the interpretation of test results and suggesting follow up procedures which may help answer clinical questions; coordinating laboratory activities to minimize duplication of services; creating and updating written standard operating procedures; and training laboratory personnel in laboratory procedures.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have a combination of post-baccalaureate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My education and experience do not match the choices above.


4.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application.

I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment.

I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information.

Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?

 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙