Position Title
Machinist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAWpnSpt-26-13002930-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10
11


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position. YOU CAN ONLY SELECT ONE RESPONSE. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.

 WG-08: I independently perform the more complex duties, such as manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding parts and items of equipment utilizing different metals and metal alloys; setting up, operating, and maintaining conventional and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery; reading and interpreting sketches, blueprints, plans and manufacturers' specifications; utilizing basic shop and trade mathematics; and planning work sequences and selecting the proper tools and equipment.
 WG-08: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding parts and items of equipment utilizing different metals and metal alloys; setting up, operating, and maintaining conventional and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery; reading and interpreting sketches, blueprints, plans and manufacturers' specifications; utilizing basic shop and trade mathematics; and planning work sequences and selecting the proper tools and equipment.
 WG-08: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as working with machinists or serving as a laborer or helper in a machine shop; assisting in manufacturing and repairing equipment parts and items; assisting in setting up and operating machinery; checking requirements from drawing and written instructions; and using basic math and a variety of tools.
 WG-10: I independently perform the more complex duties, such as manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding parts and items of equipment utilizing different metals and metal alloys. I can set up, operate, and maintain conventional and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery. I am able to read and interpret sketches, blueprints, plans and manufacturers' specifications. I utilize basic shop and trade mathematics including (plane geometry and trigonometric functions). I plan my work sequences, select the proper tools and equipment, and otherwise carry out assignments through to completion. My work is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise in manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding equipment parts.
 WG-10: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as: I have experience manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding equipment parts and items. I can set up and operate conventional and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery. I use basic shop and trade mathematics. My work is performed using a variety of power and hand tools and safety equipment. My work is assigned in broad general instructions covering the scope of the task assigned. My work is reviewed for compliance with acceptable trade practices.
 WG-10: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as: I have experience manufacturing and repairing equipment parts and items. I can set up and operate conventional and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery. I check requirements from drawing and written instructions; use basic math; and a variety of tools. My work is monitored and reviewed before closing out work orders.
 WG-11: I independently perform the more complex duties, such as programing, set-up, operation, and trouble shooting of a variety of computer numerical control (CNC) machines, such as; horizontal/vertical mills, slat bed and turret lathes, 5-axis DMG milling center, and Studer United Grinder OD/ID programming with threading and forming capabilities. Perform advanced shop mathematics, including plane geometry and the use of trigonometric functions to compute compound angles, angular indexing, hole patterns, pitch lead, and pitch diameters for various standard and non-standard screw threads. Work with fully developed blueprints and solve problems of machining unusual shapes, obtaining difficult tolerances and adapting tooling to align and hold irregularly shaped articles.
 WG-11: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as skill in setting up machines to perform machining processes requiring special adaptation of the equipment or processes for which they were not specifically designed, i.e., through the use of special or improvised tolls and their attachments, fixtures, and setups to machine unusual surface configurations such as curved surfaces requiring machine feeds in different planes simultaneously, surfaces having closely interrelated dimensions, or surfaces having unusual or compound angular relationships.
 WG-11: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as experience manufacturing and repairing equipment parts and items. I can set up and operate conventional and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery. I check requirements from drawing and written instructions; use basic math; and a variety of tools. My work is monitored and reviewed by a supervisor before closing out work orders.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙