Position Title
Fire Protection Inspector (BLS/HMT)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADSS-2613051811-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


7.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


9.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


10.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the maximum entry age requirements for this Firefighter position.
 I will be less than 37 years of age at the time of my appointment.
 I will be 37 years of age or older at the time of my appointment, but meet the following: (1) I have previously served in a DoD Firefighter position that was approved for Special Retirement Coverage and (2) after appointment to a DoD Firefighter position, I will be able to complete a total of 20 years of covered service as a Firefighter by the last day of the month in which I reach my 57th birthday.
 None of the above applies.


11.
Do you possess a valid state Driver's License?
 Yes
 No


12.
I understand that any veteran's preference claim must be supported by a copy of my DD-214 (member copy 4). If claiming 10-point preference, an SF-15 and any other proof that I am eligible for 10-point preference is required. These documents must be submitted online by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable. I am not a veteran.


13.
I possess the following DoD, IFSAC or Pro-Board equivalent certifications: Fire Inspector I, Fire Inspector II, Fire Instructor I, Firefighter I, Firefighter II, Driver Operator - Pumper, and Hazardous Materials Technician. I also possess the following State Certification: Emergency Medical Technician - Basic. (If you do not possess a certification for the state in which you are applying, you MUST have National Registry certification and be eligible for reciprocity requirements). In addition, you must possess a Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation Certification, and a valid State Driver's License to drive all firefighting apparatus and emergency vehicles assigned to the Fire Department. PLEASE PROVIDE COPIES OF ALL CERTIFICATIONS INCLUDING YOUR STATE DRIVERS LICENSE, CPR CERTIFICATION AND CURRENT EMT CERTIFICATIONS. FAILURE TO PROVIDE COPIES OF ALL CERTIFICATIONS WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE. I certify I possess each of the certifications and licenses listed above.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Carrying out fire prevention and protection programs in accordance with applicable standards; Firefighting, fire prevention theory and techniques; Controlling or extinguishing fires as a member of an organized fire department; Conducting hazardous material offensive operations and decontamination operations; Performing Basic Life Support.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙