Position Title
FUL - Educational Technician (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13069511-DE-HQ Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as any village within the geographic boundary of the island of Tutuila. The island of Tutuila is only 18 miles long with Pago Pago capital and duty station being central.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


3.
I certify that the locations I've selected for this job opportunity are the locations that I am able and willing to perform seasonal work at. To the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in these preferences are true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Educational Technician, GS-1702-05 position with the National Park Service. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. Your ratings are subject to change if discrepancies exist between your responses and supporting documents.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for an Education Technician GS-1702-05 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 level. In making this claim, I understand that specialized experience is experience that involved preparing and presenting education programs to elementary school groups, and providing pre- and post-activity instruction. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, environmental educator, teacher, teaching assistant, camp counselor, scout leader, coach, or other similar work. You must provide hours per week worked and from/to (month/yr) dates on your resume.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience defined in 1A above; however, I have successfully completed four (4) years above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite. Education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your course work and/or the degree completed in your resume or other application materials you submit. You must submit a copy of your transcripts or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course, the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information as described previously, you will be rated ineligible for this position. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience as described in 1A above or the 4 years of education as indicated in 1B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. NOTE: Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours of a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. Two full academic years of study, or 60 semester hours, beyond the second year is equivalent to 1 year of specialized experience. For example, I have 6 months of the specialized experience described in A above (50% of the experience requirement), and 3 years of college study from an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education). You must provide hours per week worked and from/to (month/yr) dates on your resume and a copy of transcripts.
 I do not possess the education or experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙