Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
313-13004520-26-EH-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION CLARIFICATION - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Department of Veterans Affairs employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Support Services Specialist with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position. To qualify for this series and grade, applicants must meet both the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) and the Specialized Experience as stated below.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP/ICTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (Not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.  Please select the appropriate response below for each grade level.


1.
Time-in-Grade - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-9 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-7 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


The following section is used to determine your job-related experience/education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.


2.
All applicants must meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) and Specialized Experience as stated below, to qualify. Please make sure documents (i.e. resume, transcripts) include all your qualifying experience and education. 

INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENTS (IOR): 

EDUCATION: Graduate Education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. For some positions in this series graduate education may not provide the knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience may be required for such positions. 2 years or a master's or equivalent graduate degree is creditable for GS-9.

OR

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.
Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization.
Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.
Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization.
Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
 I have met the specialized experience that is stated above in the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR).
 I have successfully completed graduate education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least two years. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 I do not have the education or specialized experience as described in either "A" or "B" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: In addition to meeting the IOR above, the following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.  

Specialized experience is defined as experience assisting with the facility, equipment, and/or service operation design projects; assisting with analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various Administrative programs, functions and systems, giving oral and written presentations; 

OR

Two (2) full years of graduate level education or a masters or equivalent degree in a major study - public administration, business, administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled; 

OR

Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate level education. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond 1 year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]

 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-07, in the normal line of progression for the position.
 I have earned a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least two years. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 I do not have the specialized experience or education as described in "A", "B", or "C" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙