Position Title
SUPERVISORY ELECTRONICS ENGINEER-Direct Hire Authoirty
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-INTER04-12954413-JSB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0854 - Computer Engineering
 C. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 D. 1550 - Computer Science


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic education requirements needed to qualify for the Interdisciplinary position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the the letter that best describes the education you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for engineering positions of Supervisory General Engineer, (0801); Supervisory Electronics Engineer, (0855) or Supervisory Computer Engineer, (0854), at the NH-04 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts.
 I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is NOT ABET accredited, but my education included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the following seven disciplines: (A) statistics or dynamics, (B) strength of materials (stress, strain relationships), (C) fluid mechanics or hydraulics, (D) thermodynamics, (E) electrical fields and circuits, (F) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), and (G) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics, and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts.
 I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B) above, but I am registered as a professional engineer in a State, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. In addition, I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B), but I have passed the Engineer in Training (EIT) examination, and in addition, I have a combination of education in the field of engineering and professional engineering experience, and I have provided a copy of my unofficial transcripts and a copy of my EIT certification.
 I do not have a degree as described in a (A) or (B) above, but I have completed at least 60 semester hours of course work in the Physical, Mathematical, and Engineering Sciences. This course work included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the seven areas listed in response (B). Also, I have professional engineering experience.
 I have a Bachelor or higher degree in engineering technology, chemistry, physics, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology, or another scientific field directly related to engineering. In addition, I have several years of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance and I have provided a copy of the completed training plan and my unofficial transcripts.
 I do not have any education or experience as described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Computer Scientist (NH-1550-04), grade level or equivalent pay band in combination with the mandatory education requirements identified in the job opportunity announcement. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in computer science or bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions.
 My education is not reflected in any of the above statements


From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of SUPERVISORY COMPUTER SCIENTIST (INTERDISCIPLINARY). (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of  NH-0801/0854/0855/1550-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in combination with the mandatory education requirements identified in the job opportunity announcement. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-13), level, pay band (NH-03), or equivalent (pay schedule, pay band, etc). Specialized experience is described as: ability to serve as a Supervisory Engineer and technical authority for a flight dedicated to the Test and Evaluation of critical Department of War systems with the responsibility for leading a diverse team of technical experts in planning, execution, and reporting on a portfolio of projects including C4ISR systems, Battlespace Control, Integrated Base Defense, Radar, Aircrew Flight Equipment, Weather Systems, and Crypto Modernization programs.
 I do not have the experience/education such as described in "A" above, but I believe my education would qualify me for the position.


From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of SUPERVISORY COMPUTER SCIENTIST (INTERDISCIPLINARY). (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered


4.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙