Position Title
Management Analyst (Veterans Service Center)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
NED-26-AL-12993535-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Togus, ME
 B. Detroit, MI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Management Analyst (Veterans Service Center), GS-11/12 grade levels, with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment following acceptance.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the area of consideration. This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent  VA employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for this position.
 Yes, I am a current permanent, VA employee.
 Yes, I am a current or former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and I will submit my CTAP supporting documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 Neither A nor B applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


TIME-IN-GRADE: Requirement for applicants who are/were federal employees: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 Notice of Personnel Action (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. The SF-50 must include your position title, series, grade, step, tenure (1 or 2), and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). 
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time-in-grade requirement.


2.
GS-11: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your time-in-grade:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-09 grade level or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). NOTE: Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-09 grade level or higher. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


3.
GS-12: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your time-in-grade:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). NOTE: Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level or higher. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


4.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Management Analyst (Veterans Service Center) at the GS-11 level.
 I have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: collecting and researching data for evaluations of programs/operations; researching laws, regulations, guidelines, and approved procedures to provide findings; communicating information to management, both orally and in writing.
 I possess I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (such as an LL.M., If related) from an accredited college or university, or I have completed three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. This graduate degree or education demonstrates the KSAs to do the work for this position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-11 grade level position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 My experience/ education is not reflected in the above statements "A" or "B", or "C", therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


5.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Management Analyst (Veterans Service Center) at the GS-12 level.
 I have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: providing advice and guidance for improvements on policies and making recommendations; applying analytic and evaluation methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness, productivity, and performance of administrative and technical programs; communicating issues, justifying conclusions reached, and recommending courses of action.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: job title duties (be as detailed as possible); month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙