Position Title
Human Resources Assistant (Employee Benefits) - HR Navigator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFF-12997173-26-AXS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
Birmingham, AL
Montgomery, AL
Tuscaloosa, AL
Tuskegee, AL
Anchorage, AK
Phoenix, AZ
Prescott, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Fayetteville, AR
Little Rock, AR
North Little Rock, AR
Fresno, CA
Livermore, CA
Loma Linda, CA
Long Beach, CA
Los Angeles, CA
Martinez, CA
Mather, CA
Menlo Park, CA
Palo Alto, CA
San Diego, CA
San Francisco, CA
Sepulveda, CA
Aurora, CO
Grand Junction, CO
West Haven, CT
Wilmington, DE
District of Columbia, DC
Bay Pines, FL
Gainesville, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Lake City, FL
Miami, FL
Orlando, FL
Tampa, FL
West Palm Beach, FL
Atlanta, GA
Augusta, GA
Carrollton, GA
Decatur, GA
Dublin, GA
Honolulu, HI
Boise, ID
Chicago, IL
Danville, IL
Hines, IL
Marion, IL
North Chicago, IL
Fort Wayne, IN
Indianapolis, IN
Marion, IN
Des Moines, IA
Iowa City, IA
Leavenworth, KS
Topeka, KS
Wichita, KS
Fort Thomas, KY
Lexington, KY
Louisville, KY
New Orleans, LA
Pineville, LA
Shreveport, LA
Augusta, ME
Baltimore, MD
Perry Point, MD
Bedford, MA
Boston, MA
Brockton, MA
Leeds, MA
West Roxbury, MA
Ann Arbor, MI
Battle Creek, MI
Detroit, MI
Iron Mountain, MI
Saginaw, MI
Minneapolis, MN
Saint Cloud, MN
Biloxi, MS
Jackson, MS
Columbia, MO
Kansas City, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Fort Harrison, MT
Grand Island, NE
Omaha, NE
North Las Vegas, NV
Reno, NV
Manchester, NH
East Orange, NJ
Lyons, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Albany, NY
Batavia, NY
Bath, NY
Bronx, NY
Brooklyn, NY
Buffalo, NY
Canandaigua, NY
Montrose, NY
New York, NY
Northport, NY
Queens, NY
Syracuse, NY
Wappingers Falls, NY
Asheville, NC
Durham, NC
Fayetteville, NC
Salisbury, NC
Fargo, ND
Chillicothe, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Cleveland, OH
Dayton, OH
Muskogee, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Tulsa, OK
Portland, OR
Roseburg, OR
White City, OR
Altoona, PA
Butler, PA
Coatesville, PA
Erie, PA
Lebanon, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
Wilkes Barre, PA
San Juan, PR
Providence, RI
Charleston, SC
Columbia, SC
Fort Meade, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Sioux Falls, SD
Memphis, TN
Mountain Home, TN
Murfreesboro, TN
Nashville, TN
Amarillo, TX
Big Spring, TX
Bonham, TX
Dallas, TX
Houston, TX
Kerrville, TX
San Antonio, TX
Temple, TX
Waco, TX
Salt Lake City, UT
White River Junction, VT
Hampton, VA
Richmond, VA
Salem, VA
Seattle, WA
Spokane, WA
Tacoma, WA
Vancouver, WA
Walla Walla, WA
Beckley, WV
Clarksburg, WV
Huntington, WV
Martinsburg, WV
Madison, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Tomah, WI
Cheyenne, WY
Sheridan, WY


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Carefully read the following description below. Applicants must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in order to qualify. When answering this question, remember that your experience must be supported in your resume to receive full credit. Your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answer. .


1.
To qualify at the GS-5 level, you must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-4 level in the Federal Service; experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of this specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to
Assisting with tasks such as collecting documentation or reviewing forms for accuracy.
Providing customer service through phone, email, or walk-in support.
Using automated systems to enter or retrieve data.
Supporting administrative processes such as payroll documentation, form completion, or employee inquiry intake.
Prepares and types various correspondence, follow-up meeting arrangements, and similar functions required to administer operations.
OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience required for the GS-5 level: You must have successfully completed a full four (4) year course of study, above high school, leading to a bachelor's degree in a field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal pre-requisite. This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)

OR

Combination of Education and Experience: You must possess equivalent combinations of successfully completed post high school education and experience as described above to meet total qualification requirements for this position. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)

Do you meet the specialized experience for the GS-5 position?
 Yes, I possess the specialized experience as described in the announcement
 Yes, I have successfully completed a full four (4) year course of study, above high school, leading to a bachelor's degree in a field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal pre-requisite.
 Yes, I possess a combination of Education and Experience: I possess equivalent combinations of successfully completed post high school education and experience as described above to meet total qualification requirements for this position. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I do not meet any of the experience or education as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
To qualify at the GS-6 level, you must possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in Federal Service; experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of this specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Serving as an onboarding point of contact for selectees and coordinating pre-employment requirements.
Reviewing personnel documents and identifying discrepancies.
Providing benefits guidance such as Health, Life, Dental, Vision, Retirement, and other benefit programs.
Conducting benefits enrollment and reviewing forms for accuracy/compliance.
Providing HR customer support and triaging inquiries.
Submitting and tracking HR troubleshooting tickets.
Using HR information systems to upload documents, maintain data integrity, and process actions.
Do you meet the specialized experience for the GS-6 position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙