Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist- Program Coordinator- Home Oxygen
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13054342-26-SP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
This is for a position at the Orlando VAMC. The duties and responsibilities assigned to this position are the full scope of the duties defined under the Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-12.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency

RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English language?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education

Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Did you complete a respiratory care program accredited by CoARC or its successor?

 Yes
 No


3.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Major/Specialty and Level of Education (diploma, degree, etc.):
Month and Year conferred/completed:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Licensure

Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT)?

You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application.

 Yes
 No


5.
State Issued:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Certification

Do you possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT). (You must submit a copy of your credential(s) with your application).

 Yes
 No


7.
Please provide the following information regarding your credential(s) from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) (active and expired):
type:
date of original issuance:
date of expiration:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Experience
Candidates must have One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.

Hold an active license and RRT credential. The following certifications are preferred but not required:
a. Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist
b. Pulmonary Rehabilitation Certificate issued AARC
c. AE-C awarded by the NAECB
d. COPD Educator course offered by the AARC

Do you have one-year specialized experience equivalent to the GS11 grade and RRT credential listed above?
 Yes
 No


9.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to develop policies and guidelines regarding new and emerging procedures.
Ability to implement policies and guidelines regarding new and emerging procedures.
Ability to maintain policies and guidelines regarding new and emerging procedures.
Ability to make recommendations regarding new and emerging procedures.
Ability to perform complex analytical studies of patient care.
Ability to interpret results to coordinate the management and evaluation of patient care.
Ability to coordinate the work of subordinate staff.
Ability to manage all aspects of a complex patient care program including day-to-day operation, training program resources and fiscal management.

Do you meet these clinical competencies as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?

Note: Please ensure how you meet these clinical competencies is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


PLEASE DO NOT INCLUDE A PHOTO IN YOUR RESUME RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties: be as detailed as possible Month & year start/end dates: (e.g. June 2017 to April 2021) Full-time or part-time status: (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade: for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. ***We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.*** SF-50 Reminder for Federal Employees - Must be most current to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. **Note* SF-50 must be an updated one (2022)** Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. Professional Certification Reminder - You must submit a copy of a current active certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙