Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Coder) Auditor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12977039-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - The basic requirements for employment as a Medical Records Technician (Coder) within the VHA are prescribed by the Medical Records Technician (Coder)-Qualification Standard-0675-GS9. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a MRT (Coder) on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Medical Records Technician-Qualification Standards-0675 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


1.
Citizenship: Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes, I am a U.S. citizen.
 No, but I am legally authorized to work in the U.S.
 No, I am not a U.S. citizen.


2.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes, I am proficient in both spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in both spoken and written English.


3.
Education: Which statement best describes your education in medical coding or health information? 

Note: To verify your qualifications, you must submit a copy of your transcripts/documentation.
 I have an Associate's degree (or higher) in Health Information Technology or Health Information Management.
 I have an Associate's degree (or higher) in a different field, but it included at least 12 semester hours of health information courses (like medical terminology, anatomy, and coding).
 I completed an AHIMA-approved coding program (or another intensive coding program that lasted about a year).
 None of the above apply to me.


4.
Experience & Education Combination: If you do not fully meet the education requirement on its own, do you have a combination of both work experience and school?

Note: To verify your qualifications, you must submit a copy of your transcripts/documentation.

 Yes. I have at least 6 months of medical coding/records work experience AND at least 1 year of college that included at least 6 semester hours of health information courses.
 Yes. I completed a military training program for medical technicians or corpsmen AND I have at least 6 months of medical coding experience.
 No. I do not meet these combined requirements.


5.
Certification (GS-9 Level): Which of the following current, active certifications do you hold?
 I hold a Mastery Level certification through AHIMA or AAPC (such as CCS, CCS-P, RHIT, RHIA, CPC, COC, or CIC).
 I hold a Clinical Documentation Improvement certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 I hold an Apprentice or Associate Level certification (such as CCA or CPC-A).
 I do not hold any of these certifications.


6.
GS-9 Specialized Experience, Certification, and KSAs: 

Experience: Possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level (GS-8) of an MRT (Coder) performing prospective/retrospective audits, identifying non-compliance, and re-educating staff.

Certification: Hold a current, active Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): Possess all 5 mandatory skills:
1 Advanced knowledge of ICD, CPT, and HCPCS coding classification systems.
2 Ability to research and solve complex coding convention and guideline questions.
3 Ability to review coded data and documentation to identify compliance with standards.
4 Ability to format and present audit results, identify trends, and provide guidance.
5 Skill in interpersonal relations and conflict resolution with individuals at all organizational levels.

Do you meet the experience, certification, and all of the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) described above?
 Yes, I meet all of these requirements.
 No, I do not meet all of these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Certification of Understanding: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙