Position Title
Personnel Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12838430 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 24, 2025 to Tuesday, December 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Are you a current Federal Employee or claiming Military Spouse Preference (MSP)? If you are a current Federal Employee, please attach a SF-50.  If you are claiming MSP, please upload all supporting documents for proof of eligibility.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Human Resources Clerk, NF-0203-02 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of general office experience (e.g. answering phones, filing, data entry, responding to email inquiries, greeting visitors, scheduling appointments, etc.) gained from working in an office setting?
 Yes
 No


2.
How much experience do you have with performing the duties of a Personnel Clerk; to include documented experience with posting job announcements, reviewing resumes and screening applicants?
 I have more than two (2) years of experience performing duties of an HR Clerk as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience performing duties of an HR Clerk as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience performing duties of an HR Clerk as described above.
 I do not have any experience performing duties of an HR Clerk as described above.


3.
How much experience do you have with onboarding new employees, such as sending job offers and communicating with selected applicants, initiating background investigations, conducting new hire orientations, creating OPF's etc.?
 I have more than two (2) years of experience with the above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience with the above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with above.


4.
Select the types of software you have used independently to perform work assignments.
 A. Spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel)
 B. Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect)
 C. Presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint)
 D. Database software (e.g., Microsoft Access)
 E. Portable Document Format (PDF) software (e.g., Adobe Acrobat)
 F. Scanning software
 G. Email software (e.g., Microsoft Outlook)
 H. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙