Position Title
Deputy Associate General Counsel- Division of Legal Counsel
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26ES12970579NC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


2.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


3.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response which most closely and accurately describes your professional experience and demonstrates your technical ability to perform as a Deputy Associate General Counsel in the Senior Executive Service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience which has equipped me with the professional/technical qualifications required to successfully perform the duties of the position that includes (1) Demonstrated knowledge of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the Administrative Procedure Act, other Federal and State laws affecting the administration of the NLRA, rules of practice in Federal Courts, as well as Agency guidance, and Board and General Counsel functions and organization. (2) Experience supervising litigation and litigation teams, in matters arising under the NLRA and other statutes before U.S. Bankruptcy Courts, U.S. District Courts, and the U. S. Courts of Appeals. (3) The ability and skill to provide policy and program direction for the processing of FOIA requests, appeals, and litigation, as well as guidance concerning the Privacy Act, other privacy matters, Controlled Unclassified Information, and the production and maintenance of electronically-stored information; (4) Ability to lead and manage the human, financial, information, and other resources of an organization, lead staff in accomplishing the organization's strategic goals, and counsel the Agency’s top leaders in matters handled by the Division.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


2.
In order to be considered for this position, you must certify your Bar membership is in good standing.
 I certify that I am an active member of the Bar in good standing (not disbarred or suspended anywhere) of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution. I have provided proof of my active bar certification.
 I am not an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙