Position Title
Bartender
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
NSAPC-26-12974689 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all or some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
If you currently do not reside within the commuting area of Naval Support Activity, Panama City, Florida, are you a military spouse submitting proper documentation claiming Military Spouse Preference?
 Yes
 No


5.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the required experience to qualify for a Bartender, NA-7405-03 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Experience claimed on the assessment will be verified using the provided resume. Do not over/under state experience.


1.
How many years of experience do you possess working as a bartender with extensive knowledge and skill mixing and serving beverages from a bar offering varieties of, but not limited to, brands of liquors, soda, beer and wines and skillful in mixing such beverages as an Alexander, Margarita, Zombie, and Singapore Sling.
 I do not have experience as stated above.
 I have less than one year of experience as stated above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as stated above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as stated above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as stated above.


2.
Please described your documented experience with operating a cash register (point of sale POS System) and credit card handling below.
 No documented experience with the above skills.
 I possess less than six (6) month experience with the above-mentioned skills.
 I possess between six (6) month and one (1) year experience with the above-mentioned skills.
 I possess between one (1) year and two (2) years' experience with the above-mentioned skills.
 I possess more than two (2) years' experience with the above-mentioned skills.


3.
The position requires the incumbent to have strong customers service skills to include, but not limited to, the ability to recognize intoxicated and/or unruly patrons and be able to effectively resolve any problems and know when to seek assistance. 

What is your experience level with the above?
 I possess no documented experience with the above.
 I possess less than six (6) months experience with the above-mentioned skills.
 I possess between six (6) months and one (1) year of experience with the above-mentioned skills.
 I possess between one (1) year and two (2) years of experience with the above-mentioned skills.
 I possess more than two (2) years of experience with the above-mentioned skills.


4.
How many years of experience do you possess opening and closing a bar, performing inventory, and the ability to recognize shortages of supplies based on the volume of business.
 I have no experience as stated above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as stated above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years' experience as stated above.
 I have more than two (2) years of experience as stated above.


5.
Are you currently C.A.R.E (Controlling Alcohol Risks Effectively) trained, hold an Emergency First Responder (EFR) or CPR First Aid certification, and hold a current Food Handler certification, upon being placed in the position
OR
Able to obtain these trainings/certifications within 90 days of being placed in the position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙