Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
EX-26-049-SP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a fully-qualified attorney and an active member, in good standing, of the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. Commonwealth, U.S. Territory, or the District of Columbia AND possess a professional law degree (LL.B. or JD) from an ABA accredited law school? If answered yes, please upload proof of bar membership and transcripts.

 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants must have specialized experience and education in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position at the GS-14 grade level. From the descriptions below, please choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience and education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform Attorney Advisor work.

 I possess the following: at least four years of experience which provided the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the positon. The experience must consist of the following: one year of general experience which is defined as professional legal experience of a broad, general nature, not requiring specialization or expertise in a specific area or type of law AND three years of specialized experience which is defined as professional legal experience in areas such as: intellectual property litigation, unfair competition law, administrative law, and/or experience interpreting statutes, regulations, court decisions, and agency determination related to the USITC.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.


4.
Applicants must have specialized experience and education in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position at the GS-15 grade level. From the descriptions below, please choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience and education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform Attorney Advisor work.

 I possess the following: at least five years of experience which provided the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. This experience must consist of the following: one year of general experience which is defined as professional legal experience of a broad, general nature, not requiring specialization or expertise in a specific area or type of law AND four years of specialized experience which is defined as professional legal experience in areas such as: intellectual property litigation, unfair competition law, administrative law, and/or experience interpreting statutes, regulations, court decisions, and agency determinations related to the USITC.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙