Position Title
FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP) VICTIM ADVOCATE
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12855182 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Social Work
 Psychology
 Marriage, Family, and Child counseling
 Counseling or Behavioral Science
 Criminal Justice
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you have two years of experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault?
 Yes
 No


3.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0101 series, which of the following do you possess?
 I have at least 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I do not have any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙