Position Title
PROGRAM SUPPORT SPECIALIST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12925987-AR-26-138 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with TNARNG membership within the state for which this position is being advertised?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Jackson, TN
 B. Milan, TN


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education, or training which provide a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration; experience compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person -to-person contacts to convey information; progressively responsible experience which demonstrate the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work for this position; experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you 12 months' specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level; experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled; experience and a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management; experience developing administrative procedures?

 Yes
 No


3.
What experience do you have managing a program's logistical and operational needs?


4.
Describe your experience in project management and coordination.


5.
How do you prioritize tasks and manage time effectively in a fast-paced environment?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙