Position Title
Program Support Specialist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1628-EVER-26-13000155-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Promotional): 
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
Current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service that currently holds or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level than the position being announced.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of The Interior employee AND your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service who is applying for a promotional opportunity as outlined above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Lateral or Downgrade):
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that currently holds or previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same (or higher grade level) with the same (or higher promotion potential) than the position being announced.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of the Interior employee at the same grade level (or higher) AND your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. If you previously held a higher grade level on a permanent basis, but not currently, please provide that SF-50.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience - Please select the one response that best describes how your background, skills, and knowledge, meets the experience requirements for a Program Support Specialist position at the GS-12 level. Be sure to describe your experience that supports your answer in your resume or application materials. It is important that your application package submitted clearly shows how you possess the experience you claim.


1.
Please select one response from the options below.

 I have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to 1) Budget and financial management of a large organization; 2) Development of standard operating and administrative procedures for a large organization; 3) Advisory and human resources liaison roles to management; 4) Acquisition and procurement (contracting and purchasing) and assistance agreements; 5) Facilities management.
 I do not possess one year of specialized experience as described above and therefore will receive no further consideration for this position.


YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙