Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13085968-DHA
Open Period
Oct 07, 2026 to Oct 21, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 10
 11
MQ Only RH 455037 13085968 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Engineering Equipment Operator, WG-5716-10/11 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equipment Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex engineering equipment operations. I am highly skilled in operating heavy equipment (such as mobile/crawler cranes up to 50 tons with attachments, truck/trailer combinations, dump trucks, wheel loaders, excavators, and dozers) to perform critical lifts, deep excavations, and grading on challenging, steep, or unstable terrain while carefully guarding against overturning equipment on embankments. I am an expert in routine maintenance, system-level troubleshooting, and repair of various heavy equipment mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and electrical systems. I can perform complex acetylene and electric structural welding/fabrication on vehicles, trailers, tractors, and hitches. I am skilled in operating and navigating support boats and towboats (65 feet and under) on river systems. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of engineering equipment operations. I am skilled in operating heavy equipment (including mobile cranes, truck/trailer combinations, dump trucks, wheel loaders, excavators, and dozers) to perform fine grading, exact sloping, and deep excavations on steep, hilly, rough, or rocky terrain while safely coordinating controls and attachments. I am experienced in performing routine maintenance, troubleshooting, and repairing a wide range of mechanical, hydraulic, and electrical vehicle and equipment systems. I can perform both acetylene and electric welding to repair vehicles, trailers, hitches, and project materials. I have experience operating and navigating support boats and towboats on river systems. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some engineering equipment operations. I can operate heavy equipment (including dump trucks, wheel loaders, skid steers, agricultural tractors, excavators, and dozers) to perform grading, sloping, and excavating on moderate slopes, inclines, and rough terrain. I can perform operator-level preventive maintenance and assist with troubleshooting and minor repairs of vehicle systems. I can perform basic acetylene or electric welding on simple hitches, trailers, or project materials. I have experience operating utility or support boats on flat water. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common engineering equipment operations. I can operate equipment (including dump trucks, skid steers, and agricultural tractors) to perform basic grading, sloping, clearing, and hauling on flat or rolling terrain where soil conditions are relatively constant. I can perform routine operator-level lubrication, fluid checks, and minor adjustments to keep equipment in basic operating condition. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple or basic equipment operations (such as operating utility tractors, mowers, or light material loaders on flat terrain) or have completed an entry-level equipment operator training program.
 I do not have on-the-job training or the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
