Position Title
SUPERVISORY PUBLIC AFFAIRS (MANAGER)
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
MP-25-FOCE/W-12813990 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 09, 2025 to Oct 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Merit Promotion and VEOA Candidates: You may be eligible to be considered competitively if you meet any of the following: You are a current, permanent (non-temporary) civilian employee on a competitive service appointment in a Federal agency or a former civilian Federal employee who achieved Career or Career-Conditional status with reinstatement eligibility, or a VEOA eligible;  (YOU MUST SUBMIT ADEQUATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION, SUCH AS SF-50s SHOWING TENURE, GRADE, FULL PERFORMANCE LEVEL, TIME-IN-GRADE; INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT; DD-214 OR OTHER PROOF OF MILITARY SERVICE; ETC.).

Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities listed below: (THIS IS A MANDATORY QUESTION: You must answer "Yes" or "No"  below in order to receive proper consideration).
I am a current Federal employee with career or career-conditional status.
I am a former Federal employee with career status.
I am a former Federal employee with career-conditional status who left Federal service within the past three years.
I am a former Federal employee with career-conditional status AND I am entitled to Veterans' Preference.
I am eligible to apply under the Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA).


 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Citrus Heights, CA
 B. Atlanta, GA


Current SBA/Disaster Employee
1.
Are you a current SBA/Disaster employee?
 Yes
 No


Prior SBA/Disaster Employee
1.
Have you previously worked for SBA/Disaster?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.


1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-11 Human Resources Specialist (Benefits). Make sure your resume supports the response that you select. Mark only 1 response.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience in pay or work status equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-09 level in the Federal service. This experience must demonstrate all of the following: 1) Providing advisory guidance and assistance to employees to execute a variety of employee benefits programs to include health and life benefits and insurance programs, Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) program, health benefits open season, flexible spending accounts, temporary continuation of health insurance (TCC), etc.; and 2) Responding to a variety of benefits and retirement related inquiries from internal and external customers; and 3) Researching, interpreting, and applying Federal laws, regulations, policies and guidelines on federal benefits and retirement programs/systems.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent Doctoral degree from an accredited college or university in a related field or I have successfully completed 3 full years of related progressively higher-level graduate education.
 I have a combination of the type of experience as described in "A" and graduate level education as described in "B" that, when combined, are equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirement. Only graduate level education in excess of two full years (36 semester hours) may be used in this calculation. To compute, first determine the total number of graduate level hours that exceed 36 semester hours, and then divide that number by 18 to arrive at a percentage. Then, divide the total number of months of qualifying experience by 12 to arrive at a second percentage. Add the two percentages together. The sum of the percentages must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements.


As previously explained, your responses in this Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) Understand this warning; 2) Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


2.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


NOTE: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans preference documentation, assessment questions and answers, and SF 50s) is accurate and received by the agency.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙