Position Title
Mobile Equipment Servicer
Agency
U.S. Army, Pacific
Announcement Number
SDDE-26-12917140-DHA-R Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 22, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


COE
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires membership in the US Army Reserve (USAR). If you are not willing or are ineligible to join the USAR, please do not apply to this announcement. If selected, you MUST be or become a member of the Selected USAR. Generally, retired military service members are not eligible for Selected USAR membership. Are you currently a member of the Selected USAR and are willing to maintain membership or are you willing to obtain and maintain membership in the Selected USAR?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Mobile Equipment Servicer position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Mobile Equipment Servicer duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties: servicing a wide variety of automotive, heavy mobile and powered support equipment. I am skilled in completing preventive maintenance and work order services on vehicles and equipment, such as: checking fluid levels; replacing fluids; cleaning battery boxes; flushing radiators; cleaning and lubricating parts and components; removing, repairing and replacing tires of all sizes; and collecting, preparing, posting and shipping oil samples. I have experience independently performing warehousing tasks, such as: picking up or unloading items received; checking items received for damage or discrepancies against purchase order and receipt documents; placing items in bins or storage areas; assisting with inventories, moving, stacking or unstacking palletized items; loading items in vehicles for transport; and maintaining warehousing files and reports. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of servicing a variety of automotive, heavy mobile and powered support equipment. I am skilled in checking fluid levels; cleaning and lubricating parts; and repairing and replacing tires. I have experience assisting with warehouse tasks to include: purchase orders and receipt documents. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties of working within a shop environment. I can service automotive equipment and assist with the accomplishment of tasks. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties of working within a shop environment such as assisting a journey-worker within a shop environment under close supervision. Although I have assisted with the duties mentioned above, I have not actually performed them independently.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙