Position Title
Supervisory Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
318-26-MW-12959395-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Area of Consideration:  This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and current/former Veterans Affairs (VA) employees who are CTAP eligible.  You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 I am not a current VBA employee and this question does not apply to me.


3.
What is your current grade?


4.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


Time-In-Grade Requirement:  As a current Federal employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement.  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). You must provide a copy of your most recent SF-50 that indicates proof of status, and shows Time in Grade (for example, you were a career or career-conditional employee) and identifies your position title, series, grade, step, salary, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit any SF-50 showing that grade. Please note:  Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's cannot be used to prove time-in-grade.


5.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-12 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.



Minimum Qualifications - Specialized Experience: This section includes questions about the basic qualification/specialized experience for the grade level of this vacancy. 

Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.  NOTE: Experience MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.



6.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade level, you must have one-year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level or higher in the Federal service.  Specialized experience is defined as performance of technical assignments affecting the entire field of VA's Compensation and Pension (C&P) Benefits Programs. These assignments could require interpretation of the full range of Federal, state, local laws and regulations, C&P laws and regulations, or include precedent opinions of the Court of Appeals for Veterans' Claims and authoritative opinions of the General Counsel. Examples of specialized experience would typically include: performing the duties of an Assistant Coach and assisting Coaches in their responsibilities on a daily basis; ensuring that the teams' qualify, and timeliness of service meets performance indicator goals; and being responsible for the cost-effective use of resources to accomplish the teams' assigned outcomes.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 or higher in the Federal Service.
 My experience is not described above.


Verification Statement:  Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process; my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service. I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙