Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT
Agency
Air Force Special Operations Command
Announcement Number
25-FSCN-085781 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Air Force Non-appropriated Funds (NAF).  This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for a Human Resources Assistant, NF-0203-02/03.  Your resume must reflect your responses.  Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have progressively responsible office and clerical work experience that provided you a thorough knowledge of administrative principles and practices?
 Yes, I possess the experience.
 No, I do not possess the experience.


2.
Do you possess knowledge of office automation software (MS Windows, MS office including PowerPoint, Word, Access and Excel) and the ability to type?
 Yes, I possess the knowledge and have the ability to type.
 No, I do not possess the knowledge or the ability to type.


3.
Do you possess the knowledge of rules and regulations, procedures, and program requirements of one or more areas of a personnel system?
 Yes, I possess the knowledge.
 No, I do not possess the knowledge.


4.
Do you have progressive experience and comprehensive knowledge of rules and regulations, procedures, and program requirements of NAF (Non-appropriated Funds) Personnel administration?
 Yes, I possess the experience and the knowledge.
 No, I do not possess the experience and knowledge.


5.
Do you have progressive experience in processing a variety of personnel actions within a Human Resources automated system, such as processing appointments, promotions, reassignments, and insurance actions?
 Yes, I possess the experience.
 No, I do not possess the experience.


6.
Certification statement: By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree or respond to the certification statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I certify all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if my resume and/or supporting document(s) do not support my responses to the questionnaire my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not wish to certify the accuracy of my responses; and I do not wish to be considered further for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙