Position Title
Sled Systems Mechanic Supervisor-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-474511-12839877-JDH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 21, 2025 to Saturday, December 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a SLED SYSTEMS MECHANIC, WG-4745-08 potential WG-4745-11, positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your ability to perform the duties of this position, SLED SYSTEMS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR, WS-4745-11, without more than normal supervision. (For a complete description of the required duties, see the DUTIES section of this announcement.) Due to the use of 120-day rosters, this period of experience may be completed within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 I do not have the experience or the ability to do this line of work.
 I have vocational training or I have completed an apprenticeship in this line of work.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a SLED SYSTEMS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR, WS-4745-11, under close supervision. I have limited experience in: Expertise and knowledge of explosive safety procedures and instructions. Skill in the operation of rocket propulsion and aircraft egress systems. Knowledge of electrical test equipment. Skill in troubleshooting complex problems on large projects and applying prescribed test procedures. This type of work has only been completed under close supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a SLED SYSTEMS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR, WS-4745-11, under limited supervision. I have the experience and ability to Expertise and knowledge of explosive safety procedures and instructions. Skill in the operation of rocket propulsion and aircraft egress systems. Knowledge of electrical test equipment. Skill in troubleshooting complex problems on large projects and applying prescribed test procedures. Ability to red, understand, and follow operating instructions, policies, and procedures. On routine assignments, I perform work independently.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a SLED SYSTEMS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR, WS-4745-11, and I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise and ability to Expertise and knowledge of explosive safety procedures and instructions. Skill in the operation of rocket propulsion and aircraft egress systems. Knowledge of electrical test equipment. Skill in troubleshooting complex problems on large projects and applying prescribed test procedures. Ability to red, understand, and follow operating instructions, policies, and procedures. Knowledge in the use of common hand tools, power tools, and electronic instruments used to measure continuity and voltage, and install and assemble propulsion systems on test vehicles. Knowledge of aircraft egress systems ordnance and solid fuel rocket motors and ignition systems. I am considered an expert in this field.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. (IOAC Screen Out Code) COMPETENCY ID: 4391


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙