Position Title
Addiction Therapist (Licensed
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12943242-26-JMR Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as an Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Please select the best response.


1.
Education Requirement: I possess a master's degree or higher in drug and alcohol studies or related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university. Transcripts Required

 Yes
 No


2.
Licensure: Please selectee answer that describes the status of holding a full, current, and unrestricted license to independently practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.

 I possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to independently practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Copy of Licensure Required
 I am a non-licensed LMAT and am requesting consideration as a graduate Addiction Therapist (LMAT). I understand that this is a temporary appointment (not to exceed 3 years) and failure to obtain licensure during appointment as a graduate LMAT is justification for termination. Individuals appointed as graduate LMAT may not be promoted to the GS-11 grade level without being fully licensed.
 I am an unlicensed LMAT that is covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation. Note: Only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria.
 None of the above apply to me.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions


3.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 USC 7402 (f)?

 Yes
 No


This section will be used to determine the grade level that you qualify for as an Addiction Therapist (LMAT). Candidates can qualify for this position at the GS-9 to the GS-11 grade levels based on the qualify of the creditable experience and/or education.


4.
GS-09 level Experience or Education: I have less than one (1) year of post licensure experience -or—I am an unlicensed LMAT. In addition, I can demonstrate following KSAs. (1) Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders nd the interrelationship of SUDs. (2) Knowledge of basic recovery programs nd resources. (3) Skill in providing individual and group therapy, including using certain SUD Evidenced-Based Therapy (EBTs). (4) Skill in developing and maintaining effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals. (5) Ability to complete the assessment of substance use disorders, treatment/recovery planning and continuing care planning. (6) Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress consistent with VA national policy and within scope of certification and secure appropriate interventions.

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11 level Experience and Licensure: In addition to the requirements at the GS-9 grade level, completion of 1 year of professional experience comparable to the GS-09 grade level (post licensure) and possession of a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. In addition, I can demonstrate the following KSAs. (1) Skill to independently complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning, and continued care planning. (2) Skill to apply the principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in the treatment of individuals with SUDs. (3) Skill to collaborate and consult on medical or other psychiatric disorders as interrelated to SUDs. (4) Ability to apply various community-based recovery programs and resources in a treatment plan.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙