Position Title
Trial Attorney (Admiralty)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12807649-HQ-CA-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 08, 2025 to Dec 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Trial Attorney (Admiralty), GS-0905-14 position with the U. S. Coast Guard.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education/experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Trial Attorney (Admiralty) work at the GS-14 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service or private sector.  You must meet the following requirements to be considered:
Education:
Possess a professional law degree (LL.B. or JD) from an accredited ABA institution;
Bar Membership:
Possess an active membership in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia. (Note: proof of bar membership will be required at the time of application submission.);
AND
Specialized Experience:
Possess one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Litigate a wide array of complex cases in nature including but not limited to: highly scientific, expert witnesses, medical testimonies, fatalities, and property damage; 2) Draft comprehensive and succinct pleadings, motions, interrogatories, rulings, decision and interpret laws/precedents for difficult and novel issues; 3) Conduct legal research, investigation and negotiation, and provide legal advice, opinions, recommendations and legal memoranda in conjunction with cases pending administrative hearings, trials and/or appellate courts; and 4) Coordinate with internal and external stakeholders on legal matters.
 Yes, I possess the education, bar membership and experience performing duties listed above.
 No, I do not possess the education, bar membership and experience listed in the above statements.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙