Position Title
Grants Management Specialist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
National Endowment for the Humanities
Announcement Number
26-12925288-RG-PO Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources here.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the following descriptions, please select the one (1) statement that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the Grants Management Specialist, GS-7 position.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Assisting customers/stakeholders with coordinating funding actions, that begins and/or closes out the grant award process; (2) Providing assistance in the administration of the grants portfolio, in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and programmatic requirements; (3) Assisting with activities related to monitoring grants, including receiving and reviewing progress reports; (4) Assisting with administrative or program support tasks using office software (e.g., Excel, Word, databases) to organize, track, or present information.
 1 full year of graduate level education
 I meet the requirements for Superior Academic Achievement. I have a bachelor's degree, or other directly related field and meet ONE of the following: 1) A grade point average of B (3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for your completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; 2) A grade-point average of B+ (3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in the major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; 3) Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or 4) Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. Note: If more than 10 percent of your courses were taken on a pass/fail basis, your claim must be based on class standing or membership in an honorary society. NOTE: You MUST submit supporting academic transcripts.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements above.


2.
From the following descriptions, please select the one (1) statement that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the Grants Management Specialist, GS-9 position.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is: (1) Providing guidance to customers/stakeholders regarding coordinating funding actions, that begins and/or closes out the grant award process; (2) Providing guidance in the administration of the grant’s portfolio in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and programmatic requirements; (3) Coordinating activities related to monitoring grants, including receiving and reviewing progress reports; (4) Performing administrative or program support tasks using office software (e.g., Excel, Word, databases) to organize, track, or present information.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I possess 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience as defined by OPM qualification standards - https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/#url=GS-ADMIN.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
As noted in the vacancy announcement, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
* Understand this warning;
* Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and
* Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙