Position Title
SENIOR OFFICER-DEPUTY DIRECTOR-MANAGING EXECUTIVE
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
26-IN-12856027-TMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Jan 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 I am an external candidate, and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, I will be permitted to provide an updated comprehensive resume to determine salary. If an updated resume is not provided within 3 days of being notified of your selection, pay will be established based on the resume submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.


2.
How did you hear about this position?
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)


3.
Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Senior Officer - Deputy Director position, in the Office of Information Technology for the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14 level. Specialized experience includes: 1. Managing the business operations of a legal, audit/examination, financial, regulatory or federal organization, which includes managing AT LEAST three (3) of the following four (4) functional areas: a. Time and resource budgeting; b. Human capital management; c. Planning and executing information technology or process improvement initiatives; and/or d. Operational or external-facing risk management. 2. Developing and refining organizational policies, processes and measurements to assess and improve with innovative strategies and plans the efficiency and effectiveness of the organization’s operations; AND 3. Governing information technology initiatives including applying project management principles, supervising, and resolving difficult problems encountered in the planning, development and operations of multifaceted IT systems.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


1a.
Please indicate where on your resume the specialized experience can be identified and evaluated.


2.
Do you possess the following Leadership Competencies?
Leading the Organization: Building and supporting the organization's vision, creating strategies to achieve the vision, supporting and leading innovative and creative initiatives to meet organizational goals.
Leading and Developing People: Ability to recruit, lead, develop and manage the workforce, constructively manages differences and potential conflicts between employees, building teams that meet and exceed an organizations' mission, strategic plan, and goals.
Results Orientation: Ability to meet organizational goals by effectively managing program area, identifying and solving important problems, making sound and timely decisions, and effectively managing and sharing information.
Building Coalitions: Ability to build coalitions by partnering with others to build strategic relationships, influencing and negotiating with those in sphere of influence to achieve favorable outcomes for an organization.
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please indicate where on your resume each competency can be identified and evaluated.


3.
Do you possess the following Technical Competencies?
Business Process Improvement: Uses business process reengineering methods, metrics, tools, and techniques to implement innovative solutions that would improve quality, speed, and service.
Budget and Program Management: Ability to develop and run agency budgets and programs to deliver results that efficiently and effectively meet SEC's mission, strategic plan and goals.
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please indicate where on your resume each competency can be identified and evaluated.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙