Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-13051506-AF-26-415-C Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Air National Guard or a military member who is eligible to become a member of the OHANG?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E3 through E6?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses the experience or training that has provided you with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications; the use of hand tools and test equipment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess the experience which includes responsibility for performing, coordinating, and/or overseeing the work and any periodic inspections to be done on an aircraft whether it is alone, or with the assistance of other mechanics and/or workers; coordinating the work of other journey-level workers in other trades to work simultaneously on the aircraft;  Other serving as the technical authority to advise on, examine, and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical, and pneudraulic repairs of assigned aircraft?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Directs, monitors or performs overall maintenance, servicing, inspections and documentation for one or more aircraft. Work is performed in complex working conditions under time and/or mission constraints to include all weather and night operations. Works with, coordinates and oversees the work of subordinate aircraft mechanics. Coordinates and oversees the work of journey level workers in other trades working simultaneously on the assigned aircraft. Reviews, trains and prepares to perform battle damage assessment/repair. Participates in mission generation/regeneration operations. Directs multiple specialists in preparing aircraft for combat operations. Expedites aircraft operations to include concurrent servicing, hot pit refueling and/or combat turns or integrated combat turns. Performs preflight, postflight, thru flight, periodic, isochronal, phase, hourly and special inspections, as well as servicing, defueling, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance. Serves as the technical authority to advise on, inspect and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical/environmental, avionics, engine and pneudraulic repairs on assigned aircraft. Works closely with the production control function to report current aircraft status, requests and coordinates specialist support for accomplishing maintenance exceeding sortie generation capabilities or time constraints. Controls and performs work assignments based upon priorities, workload, availability of parts, facilities, material and personnel. Assigns maintenance and repair functions to subordinate mechanics.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙