Position Title
Prosthetic Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12955321-26-CEB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility and minimum qualifications related to this position. Please read each part and answer appropriately.


US CITIZENSHIP: Applicants must be US citizens. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.). Please select the answer that represents you most accurately.


1.
Are you a US citizen?

 Yes, I am A US Citizen.
 No, I am not a US Citizen, and therefore understand that I am not eligible to apply for this position.


ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d), no person shall service in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Select the appropriate answer below regarding your proficiency in the English language.


2.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes, I am proficient in written and spoken English.
 No, I am not proficient in written and spoken English, and therefore understand that I am not qualified for this position.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Please select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education for this position. (Please include detailed examples on your resume to support your response below.).


3.
Basic Requirements: Experience/Education:
Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team;

or

Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree; or Experience/Education Combination.

or

Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
 Yes, I meet the experience and/or education described above.
 No, I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
GS-5 Prosthetic Representative (Entry Level):
Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team;

or

(2) Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree;

or

(3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
 Yes, I have experience or education or a combination of both that meet the requirements.
 No, I do not have experience or education or a combination of both that meet the requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-7 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental Level):
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, one must meet the one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following.
(1) Ability to understand and apply processes, procedures, regulations, and laws as it applies to purchasing and the provision of prosthetic items/services.
(2) Ability to coordinate multiple requests for durable medical equipment (DME), including repairs, services, and benefits.
(3) Ability to act as a liaison with and work effectively with health care providers, patients, caregivers and vendors to ensure that the most appropriate device and services are received timely.
(4) Ability to monitor contractors and vendors for compliance with contract requirements.

Do you have the Experience and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to meet the GS 7 level position? 
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-9 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental level):

Experience: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 level that is directly related to the position to be filled?

OR,

Education: The education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours may include, but is not limited to, any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following:

(1) Knowledge of methods to identify trends and causation factors sufficient to analyze prepared data and gather information to inform and advise management.
(2) Ability to organize, prioritize, and monitor actions to ensure timeliness.
(3) Ability to understand and articulate the benefits program options available. This includes communicating with patients, caregivers, health care providers and vendors.
(4) Ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations.
(5) Ability to work effectively with a clinical team and provide recommendations for prosthetic devices.

Do you have experience OR education AND meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for the GS 9 level position?
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-11 Prosthetic Representative (Full Performance Level):
Experience: Do you possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 level that is directly related to the position to be filled?

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following:
(1) Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.
(2) Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work.
(3) Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels.
(4) Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
(5) Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns.
(6) Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements. (See Specialty Services below)

Specialty Services. These are services that are unique to more complex facilities and require in- depth, specialized knowledge of the multiple disabilities that are associated with patients receiving medical and rehabilitative services in these specialty programs. The Prosthetic Representative needs to be aware of the different rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in these specialized programs and specific program requirements. These specialty services include, but are not limited to:
(1) Prosthetic implants (biological and non-biological);
(2) Blind Rehabilitation Center;
(3) Orthotic and Prosthetic Laboratory;
(4) Poly-Trauma Level I Center;
(5) Spinal Cord Injury Center - injuries that disrupt movement, sensation, and function often, with paralysis can impact lower body, upper body, bowel and bladder;
(6) Traumatic Brain Injury Center - injuries that frequently occur as part of the polytrauma spectrum in combination with other disabling conditions, such as amputations, burns, pain, fractures, auditory and visual impairments, post-traumatic stress disorder, and other mental health conditions; and
(7) Driver Rehabilitation Program.

Do you have the Experience and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to meet the GS 11 level position? 
 Yes
 No


GRANDFATHERING PROVISION
All persons employed in VHA as a Prosthetic Representative on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
(1) Employees grandfathered into the GS-0672 occupational series as prosthetic representatives may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) Prosthetic Representatives who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees who are retained as a Prosthetic Representative under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a prosthetic representative.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job Title * Duties (be as detailed and specific as possible highlighting the knowledges, skills, and abilities above) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2014 to April 2015 or 06/2014 to 04/2015) * Full-Time or Part-Time Status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.


FEDERAL EMPLOYEE: SF-50 Reminder - Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. (limit characters). TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education, or a combination of education and experience, you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) or an appropriate course listing with your application.


VETERAN'S PREFERENCE DOCUMENTATION REMINDER - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicants claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


8.
CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and behalf, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, commit deception, or fraud in this application and its surrounding materials, or any document, or interview associated with the examination process, my eligibility may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No", or providing no response to this item, will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙