Position Title
WELDER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12914722-AR-26-075 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
Are you an Enlisted member in the grade of E-1 to E-7 in any branch of military service and are you willing to become a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)V


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at theCombined Support Maintenance Shop - East
 AOC 2: NG employees in the DCSG4 (This includes Combined Support Maintenance Shop - West, Director of Logistics, State Surface Maintenance Office, FMS's 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 16, 17, 24, 27, 28, 29, and 33, and the United Training Equipment Site)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training that has provided the candidate with the basic knowledge of welding processes? Do you  have knowledge of technical orders, blueprints and specifications?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience or training demonstrating the application of a variety of electric resistance welding processes and equipment? Do you have experience in using accepted trade methods and a variety of manual welding processes to weld all types of commonly used metals in various shapes, sizes and thicknesses? Do you have experience using a wider range of metal welding processes to make more difficult welds meeting close tolerance, strength and other requirements? At times these welds may be in hard to reach places. Do you possess experience which allows the welder to devise special jigs and fixtures to hold the parts to be welded? Do you have experience which demonstrates knowledge of several related trade procedures?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone employed by this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes, I do.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙