Position Title
Exceptional Family Member Program - Case Liaison
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12800754 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 12, 2025 to Sep 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Indicate which of the following you possess.
 A degree in behavioral or social science or related field appropriate to the position.
 A combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Which best describes your work experience with the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP)?
 I have experience with the above within the Department of the Navy (DoN).
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside DoN.
 I have experience with the above outside of the DoD.
 I have no experience with the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have developing, implementing, and delivering training?

 I have more than 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience working with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have providing support services to military families, in a capacity where you gained an understanding of the specific demands and impacts of military lifestyles on individuals and their families?
 I have more than 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have with case management and ensuring the effective exchange of resource information and support?
 I have more than 5 years experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙