Position Title
Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-RF-26-12989464 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Are you a PHS Commissioned Corps Officer?

Public Health Service (PHS) Commissioned Corps Officer (this includes active duty officers and inactive reserve officers in the Corps). NOTE: You must submit a copy of your current personnel orders. Please remove you SSN from document before submission.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the Basic Qualification Requirements for Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), RF-0601-00.
 I have successfully completed a Bachelor’s or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position.
 I do not possess the education as listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the agency specific qualification requirements for Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), RF-0601-00.
 I possess a research doctoral degree in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position.
 I possess an M.D., D.V.M, D.O, or equivalent.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


3.
Describe your expertise in leading and advancing scientific research, surveillance, prevention, and response programs related to vaccine-preventable diseases, immunization systems, respiratory diseases, emerging infectious diseases, pandemic preparedness, or related public health threats.


4.
Describe your ability to provide executive leadership, strategic direction, and operational oversight for large, multidisciplinary public health organizations responsible for scientific programs, emergency response activities, workforce management, resource stewardship, stakeholder engagement, and organizational performance.


5.
Describe your experience to deal effectively with high-level government officials, foreign ministries of health, scientific and academic communities, national and international medical and health-related organizations, community and non-governmental groups, U.S. and global media, and the international public at large.


6.
Describe your ability to lead people toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Inherent to this qualification is the ability to provide a workplace that fosters the development of others, facilitates cooperation and teamwork, and supports constructive resolution of conflicts.


7.
Describe your ability to meet organizational goals and customer expectations. Inherent to this qualification is the ability to make decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks.


8.
Describe your ability to manage human, financial, and information resources strategically.


9.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?  Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


10.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume and any required supporting documentation. I further understand that my resume must not exceed two pages and provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge, skill, and abilities as required in the vacancy announcement, including evidence of the Technical Qualifications (TQs) listed in the announcement. I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


11.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙