Position Title
Golf Program Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-127 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Question
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the certifications and/or experience to qualify for the Golf Program Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.




1.
The incumbent of this position must be an active Class A Member with the Professional Golfers Association in good standing. 
 I am an active Class A member of the PGA in good standing.
 I am not an active member Class A member of the PGA in good standing.


2.
How many years of experience do you have performing the full-range of personnel management duties including supervising, hiring, coaching, addressing disciplinary and/or performance issues, conducting performance reviews and training?

 I have 3 or more years of experience supervising NAF or APF employees.
 I have 1-2 years of experience supervising NAF or APF employees.
 I have less than 1 year of experience supervising NAF or APF employees.
 I have 3 or more years of general supervisory experience.
 I have 1-2 years of general supervisory experience.
 I have no experience as described above


3.
Do you have experience in golf financial resource management, including cash handling procedures; procurement policies and procedures; inventory control; and NAF financial analysis and budget planning?

 I have experience in financial resource management within Navy NAF Golf Programs.
 I have experience in financial resource management within DoD Golf Programs
 I have experience in financial resource management obtained from a private sector Golf Program.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
Select the level of experience that best describes your knowledge of golf, rules of play, equipment, and the appropriate wearing apparel for both men and women?


 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above within Navy MWR.
 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above within other DOD agencies.
 I have 1-2 years of experience as described above within Navy MWR.
 I have 1-2 years of experience as described above within other DOD agencies.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above within Navy MWR or DoD Installations.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have managing a golf program?

 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above on a Navy military installation.
 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above on a military installation other than Navy.
 I have 1-2 years of experience as described above on a Navy military installation.
 I have 1-2 years of experience as described above on a military installation other than Navy.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above on a Navy installation or other military installation(s)
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙