Position Title
AIRCRAFT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12813851-AR-25-326-T Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Army National Guard?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of CW2 through CW3?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. 



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts and have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you posses  at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation; experienced in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information; experienced in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings; experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments; experienced in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance; competent in conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks; experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Knowledge is required in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures; experienced in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Plans and implements flight training and instruction for rated pilots and instructor pilots in accordance with the Aircrew Training Manual (ATM). Adjusts course material to meet individual needs. For a substantial portion of the time (at least 20%), performs one or more of the following: a) trains, instructs and evaluates pilots in operating aircraft using advanced instrument flight techniques; b) instructs pilots in methods of instruction and evaluates instructor pilots proficiency to engage in flight instruction; cl instructs pilots in operating advanced attack helicopters or heavy multi-engine advanced transport helicopters. Conducts training flights involving operating an aircraft through reference to instruments and use of automatic direction finding equipment such as Omni directional radials, ground control approach and instrument landing systems on and off Federal airways. Conducts refresher, mission and continuation combat training in advanced attack helicopters involving aggressor and defensive maneuvers and aerial gunnery practice with heavy ordinance and/or trains and instructs pilots in the operation of heavy multi-engine transport helicopters to transport equipment and personnel in combat situations.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙