Position Title
Senior Sanctions Coordinator
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12917152 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience and a working knowledge in ALL of the following:
 
Assisting in or independently coordinating and conducting investigations of international commercial trade transactions. Examples of these could include but is not limited to international trade and finance transactions, export controls or international trade compliance regulations and/or economic sanctions programs; AND
Applying technical, written, and oral communication skills to convey findings, analysis, and/or recommendations of investigations; AND
Compiling and analyzing information to aid in investigative duties such as identifying facts and issues, determining priorities, researching precedents, organizing documentary evidence, and/or applying law and policy to facts found. An example of this could include applying investigative strategies and techniques such as analysis of all source data.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet the specialized experience as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


2.
(Branch) Please indicate where on your resume this experience was gained. Please indicate the position(s) and the date(s) you gained this experience.


3.
From the choices below, please select the response that best describes your experience that is most relevant to this position.
 U.S. economic sanctions
 Export controls
 Financial Investigations
 International Affairs, Foreign Policy, and/or National Security Policy
 International trade transactions
 International banking or trade finance
 None of the above


4.
Please choose from the following those which describe(s) your knowledge and experience with regard to OFAC's sanctions programs and the financial services or banking industries:
 A. I researched, analyzed, and described complex financial activities of sanctions evaders.
 B. I have coordinated and overseen in depth research and investigations of financial activities in support of designations and requests for reconsideration.
 C. I have evaluated the operations and activities of sanctions-evading networks and their financial networks for applicability to the Specially Designated Nationals Program and have developed administrative records in support of designations and/or reconsideration cases.
 D. I have none of the previously described areas of knowledge.


5.
Please select all of the following in which you have demonstrated knowledge of and experience with the laws and regulations related to civil enforcement of/compliance with U.S. economic sanctions.
 A. OFAC related sanctions regulations, laws, and Executive orders
 B. International Emergency Economic Powers Act
 C. Trading With the Enemy Act
 D. Other U.S. laws and regulations related to international trade
 E. Foreign policy and national security considerations surrounding sanctions programs
 F. None of the above


6.
Please choose from the following those which describe(s) your experience regarding initiating, overseeing, and coordinating OFAC sanctions investigations.
 A. I have performed research and analysis in support of OFAC sanctions investigations and requests for reconsideration.
 B. I have independently conducted OFAC sanctions investigations, to include producing evidentiaries in support of designations and/or reconsideration cases.
 C. I have overseen and coordinated OFAC sanctions investigations, to include editing evidentiaries for designation.
 D. I have none of the previously described areas of knowledge or experience.


7.
From the choices below, please identify which of the responses best portrays the majority of your experience.
Money laundering investigations
Sanctions investigations
Export control law investigations
The financing, structure, and logistics of terrorists groups, rogue regimes, or organized crime groups
Forensic accounting
Internal audits or investigations
International banking and finance
International trade
Economic sanctions compliance or enforcement
Other regulatory compliance
Criminal or civil litigation
Congressional oversight and investigations
Investigative journalism or other research and writing
None of the above


8.
Please choose those that describe your knowledge of and familiarity with investigations of targets of sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the enforcement, regulatory, or national security community that deals with sanctions:
 A. I have coordinated with senior U.S. and foreign law enforcement and other officials regarding investigations of targets of sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
 B. I have provided detailed information related to OFAC's authorities, implementation of sanctions programs, and information about the impact or potential impact of a sanctions program in a specific region or on a specific target.
 C. I possess an understanding of the complexity presented by the fact that each of the various OFAC sanctions programs have different objectives and, as a result, actions prohibited under one program may be acceptable under another.
 D. I have none of the previously described areas of knowledge.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you have a working knowledge of regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and related laws concerning U.S. economic sanctions programs?
 Yes
 No


10.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience working on civil or criminal investigations of federal laws or regulations.
 Conducted investigative research and prepared written analyses using open sources and databases
 Participated in a major investigation into or assessment of an issue
 Led a team conducting a major investigation into or assessment of an issue, and briefed senior officials or management on the results of the investigation
 No experience in conducting investigations of federal laws or regulations in areas other than U.S. economic sanctions programs


11.
From the list below, select the item(s) that describe your experience in conducting investigations and preparing written analytical products.
 A. Conducted research using open sources and databases
 B. Conducted document review in a civil law enforcement-related investigation or criminal investigation
 C. Conducted document review in other complex investigation
 D. Drafted detailed document subpoenas or other requests for documents
 E. Drafted written analyses based on a variety of documents and sources
 F. Drafted written analyses based on financial and business data, trade/transactional or banking documents
 G. Drafted written analyses applying statutes or regulations to facts ascertained in the course of investigation
 H. None of the above


12.
From the following list, identify the type of written analysis or investigative research written work product that best describes the written work you have produced concerning economic sanctions.
 Policy documents for senior level decision-makers and/or graduate level thesis or dissertation
 Briefs or memoranda
 Factual narratives and accompanying analysis of matters involving complex facts and numerous related documents
 Other written document used to educate readers and help people make decisions
 None of the above


13.
From the choices below, check the response that best describes your experience working on investigations in the area of enforcement of U.S. economic sanctions.
 Conducted investigative research and prepared written analyses using open sources and databases
 Participated in a major investigation into or assessment of a sanctions issue
 Coordinated a team conducting a major investigation into or assessment of a sanctions issue, and briefed senior officials or management on the results of the investigation
 No experience in conducting investigations in the areas of U.S. economic sanctions


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
Have you applied U.S. regulations, Executive orders, and statutes concerning economic sanctions programs to facts to determine an appropriate result?
 Yes
 No


15.
Identify each of the types of documents that you personally drafted in the course of applying U.S. regulations, Executive orders, and statutes concerning economic sanctions programs to facts.
 A. Briefs, opinions, or memoranda
 B. Investigative reports
 C. Substantive administrative memoranda for a government agency
 D. Other
 E. None of the above


16.
From the choices below, check the response that describes your experience communicating on OFAC sanctions programs.
 Provided written and verbal briefings to Treasury leadership on sanctions targets, including recommendations on whether to list persons.
 Provided written input and/or verbal briefings at high level interagency meetings regarding sanctions targets and/or the impact of a sanctions program in a specific region or on a specific target.
 Coordinated policies, operations, and evidentiary development and provided detailed information related to OFAC’s authorities and implementation of sanctions programs with interagency and foreign government colleagues.
 No experience in conducting investigations in the areas of U.S. economic sanctions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙