Position Title
Human Resources Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13043637 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Non-Appropriated (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?

 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least 1 year of general office experience which includes office functions (e.g. answering phones, filing, data entry, responding to email inquiries, etc.) and computer experience with Microsoft Office OR Higher level education that demonstrates the ability to perform the duties in a general office setting?
 Yes
 No


2.
What is your work experience with a Human Resources Information System (HRIS) such as SAP/HR, DCPDS, Peoplesoft, etc?
 I have experience in the above within the Dept. of the Navy NAF (Non-appropriated fund).
 I have experience in the above within the Dept. of the Navy APF (Appropriated fund).
 I have experience in the above within the Dept. of Defense.
 I have experience in the above within the private sector.
 I have no experience in the above


3.
How many years experience do you have with Microsoft Office products to include Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, to run reports, create presentations, etc.?
 I have 4+ years experience in the above
 I have 3 - 4 years experience in the above
 I have 2 - 3 years experience in the above
 I have 1 - 2 years experience in the above
 I have no experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience in the above


4.
Select the types of software you have used independently to perform work assignments.
 A. USA Staffing recruitment software
 B. E-Verify Database
 C. Kronos timekeeping system
 D. DoD Safe
 E. Citrix Software
 F. None of the above


5.
Select the types of Human Resources functions/tasks you have experience with.
 A. Explaining and processing benefits to include Health, Life Insurance, Long Term Disability, Retirement and 401(k)
 B. Service Computation Date calculations
 C. Employment Verifications to include payroll information
 D. New Hire orientations
 E. Processing Retirement requests
 F. I have no experience with the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙