Position Title
Call Center Representative - DHA
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
DHA-12877329-26-HLT Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 05, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix TSC, 2700 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 B. Los Angeles TSC, 811 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA
 C. Salinas TSC, 100 E Alvin Dr, Salinas, CA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
How did you hear about this position?
 A. LinkedIn, Facebook, or other social media platforms
 B. School Job Fair
 C. Job Fair
 D. USAJobs
 E. SSA Employee
 F. SSA's Career Page
 G. Contacted by a recruiter
 H. Colleague or friend
 I. Other


Assessment 1
For the statement below, please select the response that best describes your experience and/or education. Select only one answer.


1.
Your response to the question below will determine if you qualify for the position of Contact Representative, GS-5. If you meet more than one choice, select the response that describes the highest level of experience/education that you possess. You must fully meet the description in the response to select it.
 I have at least 52 weeks of full-time specialized experience performing the following tasks: (1) working with legal or medical records, documents or benefit/financial accounts which involve applying laws, rules or regulations and written established guidelines and procedures (e.g., basic accounting, accounts payable/receivable); OR (2) experience conducting face to face and/or telephone interviews to obtain/provide information to resolve problems (e.g., collection agency, telemarketing, customer service, sales, etc.)
 I do not have experience but I have completed a full 4-year course or progressive study above high school at an accredited institution (e.g., 120 earned semester/180 earned quarter hours, Bachelor's degree, etc.). (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have a combination of experience and education. Specialized experience as described above and education course work equivalent to a baccalaureate program beyond the second year (e.g., in excess of the first 60 semester or 90 quarter hours) is creditable toward meeting the minimum qualification requirements. One full academic year of study (e.g., 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of experience. (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to combine education and experience). (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 My experience and education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


For the statements below, please select the response that best describes your experience.


2.
Your response to the question below will determine if you qualify for the position of Contact Representative, GS-6. You must fully meet the description in the response to select it.
 I have at least 52 weeks of full-time specialized experience independently performing the following tasks: (1) researching and analyzing rules, policies, procedures to respond to inquiries; AND (2) experience conducting face to face and/or telephone interviews to obtain/provide information to resolve problems (e.g., collection agency, telemarketing, customer service, sales, etc.).
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


3.
Your response to the question below will determine if you qualify for the position of Contact Representative, GS-7. You must fully meet the description in the response to select it.
 I have at least 52 weeks of full-time specialized experience independently performing the following tasks: (1) researching, analyzing and applying Federal, State, or County laws, regulations, policies and procedures to evaluate program eligibility or claims; OR (2) explaining legal or medical provisions and resolving complex issues (e.g., obtaining benefits, payment interruptions, etc.) to large volumes of people from different socioeconomic backgrounds.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you acknowledge that this position is not a remote work position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙