Position Title
Strategy and Integration Analyst
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ3-26-12841406-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Tuesday, December 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Identifies, quantifies, and analyzes potential opportunities and vulnerabilities warranting revisions or other strategic attention, and recommends appropriate action; Researching and analyzing strategic initiatives, Agency performance metrics, business strategies, and other key data and information; Organizes information to compose, prepare, guide and/or edit major products, briefings, speeches, interviews, letters, memoranda, and other means of communications which incorporate statements of agency plans, policies, commitments, and initiatives.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to respond to all questions may result in your disqualification for this position.


2.
Which of the following documents typically outlines an organization's annual objectives, key initiatives, and performance metrics, serving as a roadmap for achieving strategic goals?

 Strategic Implementation Plan
 Master Messaging Plan
 Continuous Process Improvement Plan
 Annual Operating Plan


3.
Which of the following best describes the role of Performance Based Logistics (PBL) in supply chain management?

 Focusing solely on minimizing the initial acquisition cost of goods.
 Emphasizing long-term performance outcomes and incentivizing suppliers based on achieved results.
 Centralizing all logistics functions under a single command structure.
 Prioritizing the use of government-owned and operated facilities.


4.
When preparing an integrated senior-leader briefing for the DLA Director, which action is most critical to ensuring accuracy and alignment?

 Using previous briefings as templates without modification.
 Incorporating unvetted inputs to meet suspense timelines.
 Coordinating all inputs across relevant Logistics Operations divisions before finalizing.
 Reduce content to the shortest possible format.


5.
Which of the following tools is most appropriate for mapping how a new Logistics Operations process integrates across multiple DLA functional areas?

 SIPOC Diagram
 SWOT Analysis
 Fishbone Diagram
 Master Messaging Plan


6.
You need to create a dashboard to track the effectiveness of DLA's communication campaigns related to a new strategic initiative. Which of the following Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) would you prioritize? (Select ALL that apply)
 A. Website traffic and social media engagement metrics.
 B. Media mentions and sentiment analysis.
 C. Employee satisfaction scores.
 D. Customer feedback and survey responses
 E. Lead Time for filling Material Requisitions


7.
Which of the following best describes the purpose of a Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP) within Logistics Operations?

 Translating strategic goals into actionable initiatives, milestones, and performance measures.
 Documenting daily operational tasks for each division.
 Tracking employee training and certification requirements.
 Outlining communication protocols for external stakeholders.


8.
When analyzing customer requirements to determine how DLA capabilities can support them, which step should occur first?

 Drafting a communication plan for senior leaders.
 Developing a PowerPoint presentation for the Logistics Operations Director.
 Identifying gaps between customer needs and current DLA capabilities.
 Reviewing historical media engagement data.


9.
A senior leader requests a rapid assessment of how a proposed policy change will affect DLA's ability to support Combatant Command operations. Which analytical approach is most appropriate?

 Sentiment analysis
 Operational impact assessment
 Benchmarking against commercial industry
 Employee climate survey


10.
When developing master messages for senior-leader communications, which principle is most important?

 Tailoring the message differently for every individual audience.
 Limiting messages to internal audiences only.
 Including as much technical detail as possible.
 Ensuring consistency across all communication channels and products.


11.
When leading a cross-functional Logistics Operations special project, which action is most critical to ensuring successful execution?

 Allowing each division to independently determine its deliverables.
 Establishing clear objectives, timelines, and integration points across all participants.
 Minimizing communication to avoid overwhelming team members.
 Focus solely on Logistics Operations equities rather than enterprise impacts.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙