Position Title
Employment Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
VBA-101-VRE-13044275-26-JW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Indianapolis, IN
 C. Philadelphia, PA
 D. Nashville, TN


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your response are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. 



This vacancy is opened ONLY to Agency Employees (Department of Veterans Affairs), P.L. 115-46, Sec 204 and T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). CTAP is a program which provides selection priority for competitive service positions for an agency's eligible and displaced employees. CTAP requires that an agency gives selection priority to its own well-qualified surplus employees who apply for vacancies in agency components in the local commuting area.




1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Employment Specialist GS-0301-13.

 I am currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 I am not currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 My status is not described in the above.


2.
This is a GS-13 position, do you have at least one (1) full year (time-in-grade) at the GS-12 grade level?

 Yes, I have completed one (1) full year or 42 weeks at the GS-12 grade level or above. *You must submit a non-award SF-50 illustrating the Time-in-Grade requirement
 No, I have not completed one (1) full year or 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level or above.


3.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the Employment Specialist, GS-301-13 position. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position (s), and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.

Specialized Experience:

Experience serving as a liaison to internal staff and external business partners, providing labor-market analytics, disseminating employment data, and offering consultative guidance to support Veteran employment services.  

Experience conducting outreach and marketing to employers, developing partnerships, and promoting employment programs such as NPWE, SEI, OJT/Apprenticeships, and Veteran recruitment initiatives.  

Experience analyzing national, regional, and local labor-market trends and employment statistics, preparing data reports, and advising leadership on workforce projections and strategic planning needs.  

Experience coordinating, developing, and delivering training to VR&E staff, employers, and business partners on employment services, reasonable accommodations, labor-market requirements, and job-readiness topics.  

Experience supporting job-readiness and placement activities by conducting market research, collaborating with federal and state partners, and identifying employment opportunities aligned with labor-market forecasts and participant training goals. 

 My resume reflects the minimum one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level as described in the Specialized Experience statement above.
 My experience does not meet most or all of the minimum qualification described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in being barred from federal employment.



4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and barred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.



 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙