Position Title
POWER PLANT SHIFT OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-1300772-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Shift Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of a Power Plant Shift Operator. I am able to perform all of the tasks of a control room or power plant shift operator in a hydro-power generating plant of at least 100 megawatt generation capacity. With unusual initiative, independence, competence, and without supervision, I am able to take sole command of any normal or abnormal hydropower plant operation problem, and execute a desirable solution such as would be exhibited in a recovery from a power blackout in the plant. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks of a Power Plant Shift Operator in a hydroelectric power plant of 40 megawatt generation capability or larger. I am able to perform all tasks of a control room or power plant shift operator in a power producing plant of at least 100 megawatt generation capacity, I am able to take sole command of any normal or abnormal power plant operation problem and execute a desirable solution such as would be exhibited in a recovery from a power blackout in the plant. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks of a Power Plant Shift Operator in a hydroelectric power plant of 40-megawatt generation capability or larger. I have the ability to take sole command of any normal or abnormal power plant operation problem to execute a desirable solution such as could be exhibited in a recovery from a power blackout in the plant. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of a Journeyman Operator in a hydroelectric power plant of about 40-megawatt generation capability, but requires frequent supervision and inspection where power plant operation decisions are involved.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙