Position Title
Lead Loan Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
345-LGY-12897011-26-MR Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Saint Petersburg, FL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Saint Paul, MN
 F. Cleveland, OH
 G. Nashville, TN
 H. Houston, TX
 I. Roanoke, VA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION INSTRUCTIONS: This vacancy is open to current and permanent VBA employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.

Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Loan Specialist GS-1165-12.
 I am a current Veteran Benefits Administration (VBA) employee. This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 My status is not described in any of the options above and therefore I am ineligible because I am NOT in the Area of Consideration (AOC).


INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR): This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position


2.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR): This position does have an IOR (Individual Occupational Requirement) that must be met in addition to the basic Specialized Experience qualifications. In order to qualify for this position, you must have the education or experience listed below:

This position requires Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, real estate operations, statistics, or other fields related to the position, such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology.

OR

Experience that demonstrated competence in agricultural, commercial, realty, or other types of loans. Experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for agricultural, commercial, bank or mortgage loans; servicing a loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association; performing financial analysis of commercial concerns for investment purposes; appraising real estate to determine property valuation; or similar work.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to Individual Occupational Requirement described above.
 I have a Undergraduate and Graduate Education equivalent to Individual Occupational Requirement described above.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


3.
At the GS-12 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 or held the GS-12 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-12 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-11 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


4.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-1165-12.   

Specialized Experience is defined as experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-11 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as demonstrating a thorough knowledge and expertise in all phases of the loan guaranty program. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: 

Experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.  Specialized experience which includes (1) applying advanced underwriting practices to income credit and quality borrowers across a variety of employment types to include self-employment for government guaranteed loan program(s); (2) reviewing and making program eligibility recommendations for borrowers is characterized by a thorough knowledge and demonstrated expertise of underwriting practices required of government guaranteed loan program(s); (3) collaborating with a broad range of real estate professionals to include realtors, lenders, servicers, appraisers and other professionals to educate and support access to government guaranteed loan programs(s).
 

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙