Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Deployment Resiliency Counselor)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0485 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0180 - Psychology
 C. 0185 - Social Work


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology AND 2 years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification do you have?
 A. I have 2 years or more of full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification.
 B. I have between 18-23 months of full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification.
 C. I have less than 17 months of full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification.


4.
How many years' work experience do you have communicating with and/or advising management/senior leadership in business operations, settings, protocol, and activities within the DoN or DoD?

 I have 5+ years? experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years? experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years? experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years? experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Indicate the organization(s) in which you have work experience that provided extensive knowledge and understanding of DOD philosophy, goals, vision, policy, and programs relating to individual and group counseling for commonly occurring life situations and education on resiliency/wellness.

 A. Department of the Navy (DON) organization(s).
 B. Department of Defense (DoD) organization(s) (e.g., Army, Air Force, Marine Corps) other than DON.
 C. Other federal organization(s).
 D. Private sector organization(s).
 E. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙