Position Title
Examiner/Senior Examiner (Capital Markets)
Agency
Federal Housing Finance Agency
Announcement Number
DBR-26-07-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a US citizen? If so, you can apply under this eligibility, without having worked for the Federal Government before.  Veteran's preference applies.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? -

OR

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

OR

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for expressing interest in the Examiner/Senior Examiner (Capital Markets) position located in the Division of FHLBank Regulation (DBR), Office of Capital Markets and Financial Risk (OCMFR), Capital Markets Branch at the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). You will be evaluated based on your responses to the minimum qualification and narrative assessment questionnaire. Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and/or HR reviewers will assess your responses to determine your qualifications and proficiency in the required competencies.


1.
Basic Requirement: To be eligible for the 0570 series, you must meet one of the three basic entry requirements as described below. Please select the response that describes your education or experience.

If you select option "A" you must provide transcripts with your application. Failure to provide transcripts will remove you from the hiring process.
 Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing, or other fields related to the position. -OR-
 Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: (1) Work requiring a thorough knowledge and the application of commercial accounting or auditing principles and practices (but less than full professional accounting knowledge) with a financial institution. (2) Examining or auditing such financial institutions as savings and loan associations, savings or commercial banking institutions or trust companies, farm credit associations, or Federal or State credit unions. (3) Professional accounting or auditing work that provided a broad knowledge of the application of accounting or auditing principles and practices. (4) Work that provided a thorough knowledge of Federal and State laws applicable to the type of financial institution involved (e.g., savings and loan associations, Bank for Cooperatives, savings or commercial banks, investment institutions, etc.), and of the operations and practices of such institutions. -OR-
 Certificate: A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) obtained through written examination in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia meets the GS-5 level requirements. Applicants with such certificates may also qualify for higher grade levels based on their education and/or experience.
 I do not meet the basic entry requirement described above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications EL-12: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-12 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-12 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-11 or equivalent demonstrating work experience with one or more of the following: (1) Participating in safety and soundness examinations and ongoing monitoring activities to analyze financial records, regulatory reports, institutional policies, and internal controls, and to support the execution of risk-based examination scopes, work plans, or targeted assessments; AND/OR (2) Analyzing moderately complex financial activities to assess compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance; identifying irregularities or control weaknesses; and supporting recommendations to address identified risk management issues; AND/OR (3) Preparing or contributing to examination and monitoring deliverables, such as workpapers, risk assessments, or findings memoranda, to ensure technical accuracy, alignment with examiner guidance, and effective communication of risk observations to internal or external stakeholders. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


3.
Minimum Qualifications EL-13: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-13 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-13 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-12 or equivalent demonstrating work experience with one or more of the following: (1) Leading or conducting complex safety and soundness examinations and ongoing monitoring activities to assess complex or emerging risks and to develop and execute risk-based examination strategies, scopes, or work plans; AND/OR (2) Analyzing complex or novel financial activities to determine compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance; identifying significant deficiencies or weaknesses; and developing or recommending corrective actions to strengthen risk management practices and internal controls; AND/OR (3) Preparing, reviewing, and authoring complex examination and monitoring deliverables, such as workpapers, findings memoranda, or risk reports, to ensure conclusions are well-supported, technically accurate, policy-aligned, and clearly communicated to internal or external stakeholders. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


4.
Describe your experience completing supervision, reviews, or examination of large and/or complex financial institutions.

In your response, please explain:
- Your role(s), including positions of leadership.
- Types of entities involved.



5.
Describe three capital markets related topics/data points that may impact FHLBank (or a similar institution) debt issuance or liquidity management activities.

In your response, please explain:
- How the topics/data points apply to FHLBanks (or similar institutions).
- General methods as to how you would source and monitor information related to that topic/data point.
- Topic/data point related risks that may impact liquidity levels and debt issuance at FHLBanks (or similar institutions).


6.
Detail your experience participating in a supervisory process where a challenging issue required research and/or innovative approaches to identify and measure risk that resulted in recommending or requiring corrective action.

In your response, please explain:
- How the issue was identified.
- Why it was challenging.
- What you did to appropriately identify and measure the related risk(s) as well as control weaknesses.
- What was the corrective action and what were the results of the corrective action.
- How the corrective action was communicated to the supervised entity.



7.
Describe your experience working in a diverse group to solve a complex risk-focused issue and how you demonstrated both collaboration and leadership.

In your response, please explain:
- Your role.
- The composition of the group.
- Methods used to identify and solve the issue.
- Challenges faced.
- If applicable, how you communicated your findings to stakeholders.
- Results of the work, including any lessons learned.


8.
Describe your experience developing narrative-based deliverables detailing financial institution operations and/or capital market activities.

In your response, please explain:
- Intended audience(s).
- Materials, tools, or communications you developed or contributed to.
- How you ensured clarity and accuracy.
- If applicable, how you delivered unfavorable supervisory conclusions.
- Format of final deliverable.



9.
Describe a time you took a complex data set, analyzed it, identified key risks and/or themes, and presented it, either written or orally, in an understandable way to a less technical audience.

In your response, please explain:
- Intended purpose and audience(s).
- Materials, tools, or communications you developed or contributed to.
- Specific analysis methods.
- Use of Excel or other tools to manipulate data.
- Format of final deliverable.



10.
Certification of Application: I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. If my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will rate my application based on the level of competency demonstrated in my resume. (If you select "No" to this question, you will be removed from consideration)
 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙