Position Title
GUIDANCE COUNSELOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12914719-AR-26-074 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E8 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Deputy Chief of Staff G1
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Deputy Chief of Staff G1
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a degree that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours appropriate to the position to be filled in one or a combination of the areas described below? At least one course must have been from Tests and Measurement or Adult Education below with a college or university-sponsored practicum in counseling is also required.
- Tests and Measurement: Study of the selection, evaluation, administration, scoring, interpretation, and uses of group and individual aptitude, proficiency, interest, and other tests.
- Adult education: Study of the adult as a learner, teaching-learning theories for adults, models and procedures for planning, designing, managing, and evaluating adult learning activities.
- Educational program administration: Study of the foundation and methods in organizing for adult and continuing education programs.
- Curriculum development or design: Study of the principles and techniques for development of curricula for adult or vocational education programs.
- Teaching methods: Study of teaching strategies and learning styles of the adult learner.
- Guidance and counseling: Study of the purposes and methods in counseling and guidance, the role of the counselor in various settings, approaches to counseling, and the uses of tests in the counseling situation.
- Career planning: Study of career development, learning activities, systems, approaches, program coordination, use of educational and community resources, and vocational counseling systems.
- Occupational information: Study of theories of occupational choice and vocational development and their application to the guidance process. Identification and utilization of various types of occupational information and resources.
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 24 months experience in interviewing and counseling military personnel to help them develop and achieve a valid education goal and subsequent occupation; delegate and/or perform a variety of administrative and customer support functions relative to the Education Services Programs in a state; delegate and/or maintain files and libraries of current educational material; delegate and/or schedule on-site classes, off-site classes, and satellite testing sites for individuals to attain their education goals, monitors individual Soldier educational progress and conducts follow-ups to ensure that individuals are meeting their goals, prepares and/or conducts educational briefings, and conducts surveys of education needs and preferences?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes, I have.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙