Position Title
Auditor (Information Systems) - Technology Operations Directorate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
IA-26-109A-13005783-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Postal Service (USPS), United Sates Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), or Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) career employee? If yes, please submit a copy of your current PS-50 form.   USPS-OIG Student Cooperatives or Career employees are ineligible on this announcement.         
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Employees Only
 
This announcement is only open internally to current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (OIG), United States Postal Service (USPS), United States Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), and Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) career employees only.
All others (non-postal employees) are ineligible for this announcement and must apply to announcement #: 12988363

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for this position.


Reach out to your HR Analyst or submit an HR Help Desk ticket for assistance.
 I am a current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employee and will submit my PS50 with my application.
 I am not a current USPS employee.


2.
Education Requirement (0511 Auditor Occupational Series)


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.

Refer to the following list of acceptable related degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to: Engineering, Cybersecurity, Information Security, Information Assurance, Computer Science, Networking, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a degree in auditing or a related field from the provided list, such as computer science, information technology, cybersecurity, or information assurance from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in performance auditing or an equivalent combination of auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) or Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), or Certified Information Security Manager (CISM); or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation with my application.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional (Full-Time) Auditing Experience Qualification Requirements by Level:


The Auditor (Information Systems) 12 requires a combination of education and experience. This position requires either:
Bachelor's degree and more than three (3) years of experience
OR
Master's degree and more than two (2) years of experience.


The Auditor (Information Systems) 13 requires a combination of education and experience. This position requires either:
Bachelor's degree and more than four (4) years of experience
OR
Master's degree and more than three (3) years of experience.


Please select which matches your level of experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 Bachelor's degree and more than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional experience conducting program and/or performance technical audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 Master's degree and more than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional experience conducting program and/or performance technical audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 Bachelor's degree and more than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional experience conducting program and/or performance technical audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 Master's degree and more than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional experience conducting program and/or performance technical audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 Bachelor's degree and four (4) or more years of professional experience conducting program and/or performance technical audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 Master's degree and four (4) or more years of professional experience conducting program and/or performance technical audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 I do not meet the combination of education and experience requirement for this position.


4.
Professional Certification or License (Not Required)


Do you have a professional certification or license, such as a CISA, CISSP, CISM, CAP, CASP+, or data analytics-related?


Select the option that best matches your current certification status.
 I have a professional certification or license and will submit my certification with my application.
 I do not currently have an active certification or license.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Career Ladder Promotion Opportunity - Information & Requirements:


This is a Journey Band Career Ladder position. The Career Ladder program provides for annual pay increases through the pay band based on specific requirements.

Note about the Journey Band: The US Postal Service Office of Inspector General is Excepted Service, uses pay bands, and our Journey Band covers equivalents of GS-07 through GS-13. This specific announcement covers GS-12 through GS-13 equivalents.


If approved, the employee will receive (on their anniversary date) an increase in base salary of:
Six (6) percent OR
The amount needed to bring salary to Step-1 of the next equivalent GS grade, whichever is greater.

Approval is dependent on the managers certification that:
The employee can perform satisfactorily at the next GS equivalent grade, AND
They receive a PES (evaluation) rating of "Met Expectations" or higher.

Once the employee has reached the equivalent GS-13 level they have graduated from the Career Ladder program and future increases are covered by the Performance Evaluation System (PES).


Please acknowledge you have read the above summary of the Career Ladder program.

You may have an opportunity to ask more about this program during the interview stage.
 Yes
 No


6.
In-Office Requirement:


The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the office location for which you are selected.


The following location is available for consideration:
Arlington, VA

Select the location(s) that you are interested in and would be able to report to during core business hours.
 A. Arlington, VA
 B. I am not interested in any of the listed locations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation


This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct corresponding document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload all required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
Cover Letter - Two-page (2) maximum addressing your interest in the position and why you are a good fit.
PS Form 50 - Required for confirmation of eligibility. Visit Lite Blue or submit an HR Help Desk ticket via KCE
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.
 

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


8.
Certification of Accuracy: 

 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.

Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙