Position Title
ITSPEC (NETWORK) - TITLE 5
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
GA-12853890-AF-26-039 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the Occupational Questionnaire. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability. It is important to note that all of your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be rated ineligible.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process; experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least 36 months experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization; experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls; experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment; experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where it involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience designing and engineering data and voice networks carried over various transmission systems such as cable systems, fiber optic as well as copper?


3a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


4.
Do you have experience engineering and designing router-to-router connections utilizing military and commercial protocols, circuit configurations through military and commercial multiplexers?


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


5.
Do you have experience developing plans for employment of communications systems to support in-garrison and deployed operations?


5a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


6.
Do you have experience planning and designing Wide Area Networks (WANs) consisting of Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) and Military Specification (MILSPEC) components to operate IAW accepted Information Technology (IT) security policies using automated network planning tools?


6a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙