Position Title
Child and Youth Program Operations Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12974357 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 01, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Fee Assistance Operations Clerk position with the DoN Child and Youth Programs, N926. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have one year or more of general adminitrative work experience; OR an Associate degree in Business Administration, Project Management or in a related field; OR an equivalent combination of education and experience?
 
 
 Yes, I have one year or more of general administrative work experience.
 Yes, I have Associate’s degree in Business Administration, Project Management or in a related field.
 Yes, I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have experience with the policies and procedures related to a Military or a state Fee Assistance Program or reviewing eligibility and parent fee information within a military child and youth program?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing general administrative work assignments, such as preparing and maintaining reports; reviewing paperwork for accuracy; and/or disseminating information to customers?
 I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙