Position Title
Food Service Worker
Agency
Air Force Global Strike Command
Announcement Number
26-4KFSYC233989 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain current record of immunization. Are you willing and able to submit to immunization screenings, undergo vaccinations including annual influenza vaccinations, and provide evidence of immunizations?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
To be considered for this position, the applicant must be a U.S. Citizen or a Legal U.S. Resident for a minimum of 3 years and must reside in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires regular contact with children under the age of 18 and a favorable fitness determination to do so. Are you willing to undergo a specific initial background check, investigation, and periodic re-verification check of multiple agency records to obtain and maintain a favorable fitness determination to occupy a position having regular contact with children?
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙