Position Title
SUPPORT SERVICES SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-13072261-AR-26-260
Open Period
Oct 07, 2026 to Nov 04, 2026
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)
2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)
3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.
4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Deputy Chief of Staff G6
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Deputy Chief of Staff G6
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.
5.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E5 in the Pennsylvania National Guard or any branch of military service and are you willing to become a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No
0342-09-D1595P02-PANG
1.
Do you have experience, education or training in administrative, professional, technical, or other work that provided knowledge of support services? Knowledge of administrative methods and procedures used in planning, organizing work, and skill in dealing with others in person-to-person work relationships? Experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.
.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for support service function? Experience planning and directing a variety of clerical operations? Experience using methods and procedural steps, and working under general instructions to meet the objectives of support services programs?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative who is employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4.
Have you ever been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No
5.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
