Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12941253-26-AP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as a Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography) (RRT) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).

Please select the best response.

FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


1.
Basic Education Requirement: Individuals appointed as a Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography) must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.


 I have successful completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC). Transcripts Required.
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please provide the following Information regarding your education
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree earned:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred


2.
Basic Licensure Requirement: Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT

I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist. Copy of License required.
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following Information regarding your Licensure.
Licensure Type:
State Issued:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:


3.
Credential & Certification. 
 
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT and a RPSGT Certification

I possess the credential as a Registered Respiratory Therapist from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) and the RPSGT Certification 

Copy of credential required.
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide the following Information regarding your credential as a Registered Respiratory Therapist from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) and your RPSGT Certification 
credential type:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:


4.
English Language:  to be appointed as authorized by 38 USC 7402 (d), 7407 (d) Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 USC 7402 (d), 7407 (d)?
 Yes
 No


This section will be used to determine if you possess the creditable experience and demonstration of the required KSAs for the RRT at the GS-12 grade level.


5.
GS-12  Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met:

Experience:  At least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level  

-AND-

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):  In addition to the experience above, you  must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Skill in performing polysomnographic studies to include obtaining both physiologic and diagnostic data.
Skill in calibrating and troubleshooting polysomnographic equipment.
Skill in monitoring both physiologic and diagnostic parameters.
Skill in scoring data both during and post diagnostic testing.
Skill in analyzing data both during and post diagnostic testing.
Skill in preparing output for physician interpretation of data obtained both during and post diagnostic testing.
Skill in the assessment of oxygenation, ventilation and adverse responses.

Do you meet all the above GS-12 Grade Determination Requirements and does your application clearly demonstrate experience that supports all the listed KSAs?




 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙