Position Title
Transportation Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12901942-26-AAK Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience and/or education to meet the qualification requirements for this position.

 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-5: I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-04) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Transportation Assistant. Qualifying specialized experience includes applying transportation regulations and practices to perform a wide variety of administrative support; coordinating travel arrangements; maintaining records, utilizing databases, reconciling records and generating reports; investigating/resolving issues and taking corrective actions; and communicating effectively with a wide variety of individuals. OR
 EDUCATION SUBSTITUTION (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): I have successfully completed 4 years of education above high school in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite. OR
 COMBINATION (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): I have equivalent combination of successfully completed post-high school education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (beyond the second year) and specialized experience as described above, meets the total experience requirements for this grade level.
 I do not meet the experience and/or education described above.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Auditing competency (Knowledge of generally accepted auditing standards and procedures for conducting financial and compliance, economy and efficiency, and program results audits.).


1.
Task: Performing regular reconciliations of accounts and adjusting account balances.
When performing a regular reconciliation of the Beneficiary Travel fund account, the primary goal of the Transportation Assistant is to:

 Only check the total amount of money spent over the last three years.
 Ensure that the ending balance in the agency ledger matches the total of authorized and pending claims and resolve any discrepancies by identifying and correcting mis-posted transactions.
 Immediately adjust the ledger balance to match the desired total, regardless of the claims data.
 Transfer any unspent funds into a personal spending account.


2.
Task: Responsible for determining method of payment for authorized and unauthorized claims submitted for consideration.
When a beneficiary submits a claim for travel reimbursement, the determining factor for selecting the appropriate method of payment (e.g., electronic funds transfer vs. check) is primarily:

 The Transport Assistant's personal preference for a specific payment method.
 The distance the beneficiary traveled on the current trip.
 The beneficiary?s official designation on file, the agency?s established payment protocols, and compliance with electronic payment regulations.
 How quickly the beneficiary demands the payment be made.


3.
Task: Responsible for balancing, reconciling, and adjusting invoices for payment.
Before certifying an invoice for payment, the most critical step in the reconciliation and balancing process is to:

 Ensure the invoice is signed by the beneficiary.
 Only check that the vendor's name is spelled correctly.
 Adjust the invoice amount downward by 10% to save the agency money.
 Validate that the invoice amount matches the authorized purchase order or contract, confirm that the goods or services were received, and verify all required documentation is attached.


4.
Task: Reconciling vouchers against authorizations for accuracy prior to preparing certifications for payment.
When reconciling a travel voucher against the pre-approved authorization, what information must the Transportation Assistant prioritize for accuracy?

 The dates, destination (clinic/facility), mode of travel, and claimed mileage/cost to ensure they align exactly with the approved authorization and program rules.
 The beneficiary's favorite color, as noted on the form.
 The total number of signatures collected on the voucher form.
 Only the beneficiary's home address, as it must be current.


The following statements pertain to the Clerical competency (Knowledge of filing, typing, entering data, maintaining records, taking shorthand, and using and completing forms.).


5.
Task: Determining eligibility for the program.
Which administrative resource is most essential for the Transportation Assistant to use when accurately determining a beneficiary's eligibility for the travel program?

 A random online search result that mentions travel.
 A handwritten note left by the previous Transportation Assistant.
 The official, current guidelines and criteria for the program, verified against the beneficiary's verified enrollment and status records.
 An outdated policy manual from the previous year.


6.
Task: Responsible for forwarding all invoices certified for payment.
The correct administrative procedure for forwarding all invoices certified for payment involves:

 Sending the documents via regular postal mail to the fiscal office without any tracking.
 Personally delivering the invoice to the beneficiary before sending it to the fiscal office.
 Holding onto the invoices for 30 days to see if the beneficiary calls to inquire.
 Logging the certification date and total amount, transmitting the documents to the designated fiscal office, and maintaining a verifiable audit trail of the transfer in accordance with records management policy.


7.
Task: Writing and/or selecting appropriate letters explaining disposition of unauthorized claims.
When writing a letter to explain the denial (disposition) of an unauthorized claim, the letter must adhere to the highest clerical and administrative standards by being:

 A single sentence that simply states "Claim Denied."
 Clear, concise, respectful, citing the specific regulation that mandates the denial, and explaining any appeal rights or alternative resources available.
 Exactly three paragraphs long, regardless of the complexity of the claim.
 Written in a highly technical, legalistic jargon that the beneficiary cannot understand.


8.
Task: Explaining regulations and guidelines to beneficiaries.
When explaining complex travel reimbursement regulations and guidelines to a beneficiary over the phone, the most effective clerical practice for ensuring accuracy and comprehension is to:

 Use clear, plain language (avoiding jargon), reference the specific written materials, and confirm the beneficiary understands the key eligibility criteria and documentation requirements.
 Read the regulation word-for-word, without providing any clarification or context.
 Advise the beneficiary that the regulation is too complicated to understand.
 Tell the beneficiary to figure out the rules for themselves.


The following statements pertain to the Customer Service competency (Works with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.).


9.
Task: Communicating and interacting with patients in a manner which is appropriate to cognitive, emotional, and chronological maturation.
A new beneficiary who appears to be elderly and easily confused approaches the counter with questions. The most appropriate communication style is to use:

 A highly formal, academic tone to establish authority.
 Only technical program acronyms and jargon to save time.
 Simple, direct language, speaking slowly and clearly, and using visual aids or repetition as necessary to ensure information is processed and understood.
 A loud volume, regardless of the beneficiary's hearing ability.


10.
Task: Conducting regular and recurring contact with personnel external to the agency for the obtainment of services.
Regular contact with external personnel (e.g., transportation vendors or contract managers) to obtain services requires the Transportation Assistant to prioritize:

 Sharing confidential beneficiary information with the external personnel to facilitate service.
 Personally visiting the external personnel's office daily, regardless of need.
 Negotiating new contract terms with the external personnel without involving the contracting office.
 Professionalism and clarity in all communication, maintaining accurate records of service requests and outcomes, and adhering to established vendor protocols.


11.
Task: Responding to client requests and seeks resolution of family/patient/employee complaints.
When a beneficiary's family member calls with a complaint about a delayed reimbursement, the primary action the Transportation Assistant should take to seek a constructive resolution is to:

 Tell the family member that the delay is not the Transportation Assistant's fault.
 Acknowledge the delay and inconvenience, investigate the status of the claim in the system, and provide a clear, realistic explanation of the delay and a new anticipated resolution date.
 Transfer the call to a different department that cannot help them.
 Promise an immediate payment, even if the system shows the claim is still processing.


12.
Task: Utilizes professional communication in all modes of customer contact, in-person, telephone, and email correspondence.
When responding to a beneficiary's eligibility question via email correspondence, professional communication dictates that the Transportation Assistant must include:

 A clear, concise subject line, a respectful closing, a review of the question asked, and an accurate, well-organized answer that protects sensitive information.
 A variety of emojis to show friendliness.
 All of the beneficiary's private medical history in the body of the email for context.
 The Transportation Assistant's personal cell phone number and home address.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙