Position Title
Direct Hire Public Notice - Data Scientist
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12951156-26-EM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Chattanooga, TN
 F. Arlington, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13
14
15


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.

Select the answer that best describes your education and/or experience that meets the qualification standard for the Data Science-1560 Series.

 I have successfully completed a degree in Mathematics, Statistics, Computer Science, Data Science, or another field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study at least at the baccalaureate level and appropriate for the position
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience, or additional education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
GG-11 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-09 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience required but I have more than two years of graduate level education with a major or subject area related to the position to be filled. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education qualifying for this position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
GG-12 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-11 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


4.
GG-13 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-12 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


5.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


6.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙