Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
FO-26-IMP-13070354
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Government Accountability Office? This includes Career/Career-Conditional employees serving on a non-temporary appointment. This does not include employees on temporary or term appointments. To determine if you are eligible, your most recent SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action form should reflect: career or career-conditional, Tenure of 1 or 2 in box 24 AND status in the excepted service, Position Occupied of 2 in box 34. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) with your application. Your SF-50 must include your position title, pay plan/series/band and tenure. Please be aware that award SF-50's may not include this pertinent information. If your last SF-50 is an award SF-50, please additionally submit the next most recent non-award SF-50 that does include the above fields.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Oakland, CA
 Boston, MA
 Norfolk, VA
 Seattle, WA
Field Opns Management & Program Analyst
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.
From the descriptions below, select the statement that describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements of this position. Applicants must have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the next lower level/band, equivalent to the PT-II, PE-IIB or GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped the applicant with the skills and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience overseeing and performing a wide variety of administrative functions and services such as handling routine building maintenance issues, applying physical and information security policies and procedures, and/or monitoring, maintaining, and reconciling an office budget. Prior professional experience must demonstrate the ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse administrative activities, as well as the ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others. Customer service skills as well as written and oral communication skills are also required.
 Yes
 No
2.
Please provide a short narrative supporting your answer to the above question, including information on the circumstances, the complexity of the work, the length of time, and organizations where this work was performed. Maximum length of 4000 characters, including spaces.
3.
Which statement best describes your experience leading others and carrying out assignments through lower-level staff members?
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance in carrying out this work only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work in unusually complex situations.
4.
This position requires the incumbent to monitor, maintain and reconcile the field office budget. Select ALL of the responses that describe your background and experience.
 I have prepared or reviewed the preparation of purchase orders and/or simplified procurement for supplies, external training, equipment, furniture and/or training.
 I have prepared or reviewed reconciled expenditure reports.
 I have certified receipts of supplies and equipment.
 I have served as a payment approver for purchase cards and/or contracts.
 I have determined the correct budget classification to use when tracking purchases.
 My experience is not described in any of the above.
5.
This position requires the incumbent to apply substantive knowledge of federal regulations and policies affecting GAO business processes. Select ALL of the responses that describe your background and experience.
 I have experience working with federal time/attendance regulations and policies.
 I have experience working with federal official travel regulations and policies.
 I have experience working with federal procurement regulations and policies.
 I have federal training pertaining to regulations and policies related to time/attendance, travel, and/or procurement, but I do not have on the job experience working with these regulations/policies.
 I do not have federal training or experience in regulations and policies related to time/attendance, travel, and/or procurement, but I do have non-federal training or experience in these areas that would be relevant to this position.
 None of the above.
6.
This position requires the incumbent to deal professionally and courteously with management officials and staff at all levels and in multiple physical locations in order to provide direct assistance. Please select the one answer that best describes your ability to provide quality customer service to employees.
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance in carrying out this work only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work in unusually complex situations.
7.
The work of this position involves managing multiple assignments, conflicting priorities, and multi-tasking, all while maintaining quality customer service and meeting various deadlines. Select the one answer that best describes your background and experience.
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance in carrying out this work only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work in unusually complex situations.
8.
This position requires the incumbent to conduct briefings or training--formally and informally--to staff on a variety of topics including administrative processes and security issues. Select the one answer that best describes your experience.
 I have conducted both formal and informal briefings or trainings that were accurate, clear, and tailored to a variety of audiences and on a range of topics.
 I have conducted formal and informal briefings or trainings that were accurate and clear to groups or individuals on routine topics.
 I have conducted informal briefings or training that were accurate and clear to small groups or individuals on straightforward topics.
 My experience is not defined in any of the above.
9.
This position requires the incumbent to ensure that routine building maintenance issues are resolved in a timely manner; to know and follow property control procedures including inventory control; and, to assist with office renovations or relocation projects. Select ALL of the items that describe your experience.
 I have overseen timely and cost-effective routine building maintenance for issues such as effectiveness of janitorial services or equipment maintenance scheduling.
 I have training or experience in property control methods for personal property.
 I have overseen or conducted physical property inventories.
 I have assisted with the planning and/or implementation of office renovations or relocations.
 My experience is not defined in any of the above.
10.
This position requires the incumbent to prepare written communications for a variety of audiences and purposes. Select ALL of the responses that describe your background and experience
 I have responded to complex, technical, and/or sensitive questions about administrative services or procedures with timely, accurate, clear, and concise written explanations.
 I have developed graphics that effectively convey key points with minimal supporting explanation.
 I have written or reviewed protocols or procedures for administrative processes to ensure they meet the needs of the target audience.
 My experience is not described in any of the above.
11.
Select ALL of the following software categories in which you are able to create and modify products and use the software as a tool in performing the tasks required of this position.
 Word Processing (e.g., Word)
 Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 Databases (e.g., Access) D. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., PowerPoint)
 Email Programs (e.g., Outlook)
 Web-based Programs
 None of the above.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information in and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes
 No
