Position Title
Student Trainee (Administrative Support)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-ST-26-12985778 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or Priority Reemployment List (PRL) Eligible

Are you a former Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employee eligible for priority reemployment consideration under the HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) due to Reduction in Force (RIF) or due to fully recovering from a compensable work-related injury after more than one year?
You may be eligible for priority consideration if you are actively registered on the HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) for the same local commuting area, occupational job series, and grade level(s) as this vacancy announcement.

If you meet these criteria, the following supporting documentation must be submitted to support your claim:
copy of your last performance rating of record (if separated due to RIF);
SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that shows the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were separated. If you did not reach your full performance level or promotion potential, you should also submit an additional SF-50 that documents that grade level. To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information; and,
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease (if eligible due to recovery from compensable work-related injury).
Based on the above, are you eligible for RPL/PRL? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Montgomery County, MD
 B. Durham, NC


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5
6
7


IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOCATION PREFERENCE:

Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Institutes of Health. For the following location preference question, please ensure to select all options for which you would like to be considered. It is imperative that the location preference you select is correct since changes cannot be made once the announcement closes.

Remote Work: If you would like to be considered for remote work only, please only select "Location Negotiable" or "All-NIH Locations".

On-Site: If you would like to be considered for on-site work only, please only select the duty stations you are willing to report to on-site.

Combination: If you would like to be considered for multiple options, please select all that are applicable.


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilo


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Institutes of Health. Carefully read each question and all response options before selecting your answer. Some questions may be used to determine basic eligibility; responses may result in disqualification.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Age Eligibility Requirements for this program. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Are you least 16 years old?
 Yes
 No


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Eligibility Requirements for this program. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
 I am a current student who is enrolled in an accredited high school, college (including 4-year college/university, community college, or junior college); professional, technical, vocational, or trade school; advanced degree program; or other qualifying accredited education institution pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate AND am attending on at least a half-time basis. I am enrolled in the Fall 2026 Semester and plan on continuing my education.
 I am NOT a current student who is enrolled in an accredited high school, college (including 4-year college/university, community college, or junior college); professional, technical, vocational, or trade school; advanced degree program; or other qualifying accredited education institution pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate AND am attending on at least a half-time basis. I am enrolled in the Fall 2026 Semester and plan on continuing my education.
 None of the previous responses applies to me.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Grade Point Average Program Eligibility Requirements for this program. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
 I currently have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) at or above 3.00 on a 4.00 scale. (We DO NOT round up)
 I have recently been accepted for new enrollment, at least on a half-time basis, in an associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate program from a qualifying accredited educational institution and therefore do not have a cumulative grade point average calculated yet (for example, I graduated with a bachelor's degree and have been accepted for enrollment in a master's degree for Fall 2026 semester; therefore, I do not have a GPA).
 None of the previous responses applies to me.


4.
Choose the answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a Student Trainee (Administrative Support) (GS-0399-3) as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-3 level because I have completed one (1) academic year of post-high school study.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-3 level because I have six (6) months of general work experience equivalent to a GS-2 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: performing clerical tasks related to processing paperwork, preparing correspondence, receiving visitors and telephone calls and referring them to the appropriate staff members.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


5.
Choose the answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a Student Trainee (Administrative Support) (GS-0399-4) as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-4 level because I have completed (2) academic years of post-high school study.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-4 level because I have one (1) year of general work experience equivalent to a GS-3 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: performing clerical tasks related to creating filing systems, using computer software, and organizing and maintaining manual and reference guides.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


6.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for an (Administrative Support) (GS-0399-5) as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-5 level because I have completed a bachelor's degree or have completed four (4) years of education above high school.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-5 level because I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: performing clerical tasks related to processing paperwork related to administrative duties, utilizing automated systems and software applications, inputting information into databases, assisting with providing logistical support for program staff, preparing travel documents, providing general office support to staff.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


7.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a (Administrative Support) (GS-0399-6) as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-6 level because I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: receiving visitors/phone calls, directing caller to appropriate staff; maintaining files; maintaining policies/procedures/docs for ready reference; maintaining office supplies; arranging equipment repair, and/or office moves; performing travel related duties; utilizing automated systems and software applications, inputting information into databases, assisting with providing logistical support for program staff, etc.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


8.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a (Administrative Support) (GS-0399-7) as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-7 level because I have completed one (1) full academic year of graduate level education, if related.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-07 level because I meet one of the requirements for superior academic achievement based on a) graduating within the upper third of the graduating class in a college, university, or major subdivision such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; b) having a grade point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; c) being elected for membership in a national scholastic honor society. Note: SAA must be based on a related curriculum that is qualifying for the position being filled.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-7 level because I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-6 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: performing administrative support functions re: HR, security, travel, training, files management, budget, supplies and inventory, property accountability, or space management; developing/implementing office procedures; maintaining employee records, performance appraisals, job descriptions, etc.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


For the following questions, please provide a brief response to the information requested below.


9.
Please indicate the degrees(s) or certificate(s) you are currently enrolled in or have been accepted to, the field(s) of study, and the level of degree or certification (e.g. high school, associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree certificate).


10.
Please indicate the name of the school you are currently enrolled in or have been accepted to, and the city and state in which the school is located.


11.
Please indicate your expected degree or certificate completion date.


12.
Please indicate your work schedule availability (i.e. full-time, part-time, or both)
 Full-time
 Part-time
 Full-time and Part-time


13.
Provide your top three areas of interest from the following: Auditor, Accountant, Human Resources Assistant, Human Resources Specialist, Program Specialist, Extramural Support Assistant, Program Support Assistant, Administrative Technician, Administrative Officer, Management/Program Analyst, Budget Analyst, Engineer, Purchasing Agent, Property Management Specialist, Ethics Program Assistant, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Specialist, Grants Management Specialist, IT Specialist, Immigration Specialist, Mathematical Statistician, Contract Specialist, Realty Specialist, Writer-Editor, Public Affairs Specialist and/or Digital Communications Specialist. For a description of the positions listed above, please visit: https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/global-recruitment.


14.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will remove you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, I may be removed from further consideration or future employment.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙