Position Title
Excise Tax Auditor
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12992588 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
You must meet the minimum basic educational and/or work experience requirements for professional auditing positions in the federal government. This includes:

A.) Degree: accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law; OR

B.) Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.

Choose one answer that best describes your educational/work experience. (Attach a copy of transcript(s) or a list of courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit).
 I meet the requirements as provided under part A.
 I meet the requirements as provided under part B.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


2.
To qualify for this position as a GS-13 you must meet the specialized experience requirements for this position with at least one full year of experience at the GS-12 level, or equivalent. This experience as provided below, should have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of the position. This specialized experience includes:

- Planning and performing financial audits; AND
- Preparing written products used to develop the final audit report.

Do you have 1-year (52 weeks) of this experience?
 Yes, I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 No, I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
This position requires the incumbent to travel up to 50% of the time. Are you willing to travel the required amount of time?
 Yes
 No


4.
Identify the statement(s) that describe your experience in communicating information related to audit findings (including making presentations) to high-ranking management officials.
 A. I have communicated audit findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
 B. I have delivered formal presentations or training sessions concerning accounting, auditing, or financial information.
 C. I have persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow recommended courses of action.
 D. I have participated in meetings to discuss the resolution of significant audit findings.
 E. I have provided advice and made recommendations on accounting program operations, financial policies, and regulatory requirements.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


5.
Choose the statement(s) which describe your communication experience to support agency goals and leadership.
 A. I communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in oral presentations.
 B. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 C. I brief managers outside the organization on agency goals and objectives.
 D. I defend agency position with third parties performing oversight review of programs.
 E. I have fostered cooperation and consensus among groups in obtaining agency goals.
 F. I have built consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Select all the statement(s) that describe your experience preparing and reviewing audit reports and summaries.
 A. I have written sections of audit reports.
 B. I have been the primary author of audit reports.
 C. I have reviewed audit reports for accuracy, adherence to audit policies, and organization of material and clarity.
 D. I have written explanations and summaries of analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that were incorporated into written reports.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Select the response that best details your experience interviewing industry-members/stakeholders as directed by the Auditor in Charge or Supervisory Auditor.
 I have supervised performance of this task or I'm normally the person who is consulted by others to assist them in completing this task because of my experience.
 I have performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job with minimal supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I do not have experience in performing this task.


8.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in oral communication.
 A. I have orally presented technical information in person or by phone.
 B. I have made speeches or oral presentations to groups conveying information.
 C. I have conducted interviews to elicit facts or obtain information.
 D. I have made oral presentations involving business, finance, or legal topics.
 E. I have experience with oral negotiations in adversarial settings or with confrontational individuals or groups.
 F. None of the above


9.
Indicate your interpersonal communications experiences below.
 A. I explain technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside of the agency/bureau.
 B. I establish and maintain working relationships with representatives of other organizations.
 C. I provide interpretative advice, guidance or direction to staff on regulations and procedures.
 D. I clarify requirements, exchange routine information, and obtain missing information.
 E. I negotiate issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement on changes affecting the examination (e.g., audit, review, or special work) or work product.
 F. I resolve conflicts by persuading others to accept new conditions, procedures, or techniques.
 G. I interact in situations where shifts in priorities, work assignments, or deadlines occur frequently due to delays or unexpected events.
 H. None of the above


10.
Choose the statement(s) that apply to your experience in preparing and reviewing audit reports and summaries.
 A. I have written sections of taxpayer management letters or audit reports.
 B. I have been the primary author of taxpayer management letters or audit reports.
 C. I have reviewed taxpayer management letters or audit reports for accuracy, adherence to audit policies, and organization of material and clarity.
 D. I have written explanations and summaries of analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that were incorporated into written reports.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Identify the professional certifications held.
 A. I have a CPA (Certified Public Accountant)
 B. I have a CIA (Certified Internal Auditor)
 C. I have a CFE (Certified Fraud Examiner)
 D. I have a CISA (Certified Information System Auditor)
 E. I have an MBA (Masters in Business Administration)
 F. I do not have any of the above.


12.
Choose the responses describing audit tasks you perform on a regular and recurring basis (e.g., as a major component of your job duties).
 A. Assist in planning, coordinating, and conducting audits for portions of the bureau's operations
 B. Develop findings during financial/compliance audits and monitor the implementation of corrective actions to improve deficiencies
 C. Consolidate findings identified during audits then provide guidance regarding current accounting/financial management techniques and improvements to internal control systems
 D. Apply accounting/financial management techniques and methods to resolve financial problems
 E. None of the above


13.
Select the response that best describes your experience in simultaneously managing multiple assignments or projects.
 I have limited opportunities to managing more than two assignments simultaneously
 As part of a team or group, I complete more than two work assignments simultaneously, but my my deadlines and specific courses of action are determined by others. I report the status of the assignments on a frequent basis, accounting for any obstacles that may delay their completion.
 I occasionally manage more than two simultaneous assignments which require me to be organized and responsive to unscheduled work assignments. My supervisor is consulted on an as needed basis for guidance or resolution to unexpected delays or obstacles in completing assignments.
 One of my primary responsibilities is to continuously prioritize more than two simultaneous work assignments, determining the course of action to take, plan for obstacles or delays, and address other assignments as they arise with short deadlines.
 None of the above


14.
Identify the following Audit Standards you have utilized during audits.
 A. I have used Government Auditing Standards (Yellow Book)
 B. I have used the Institute of Internal Auditors' Statements on Internal Auditing Standards
 C. I have used the United States Code/Code of Federal Regulations in conducting audits.
 D. I have used industry Circulars and/or Revenue Rulings in conducting audits.
 E. I have not used any of the above.


15.
Select all the statement(s) that describe your highest-level of experience building relationships with senior executives in industry, government entities, the media and the public.
 A. I conduct formal and informal meetings or presentations to decision makers in a variety of settings.
 B. I persuade subordinates, peers and superiors to take a particular course of action, accept findings, recommendations, make changes, or accept alternative viewpoints.
 C. I serve as an authoritative source (i.e., Subject Matter Expert) or as a consultant to/with other government agencies.
 D. None of the above


16.
Identify the one statement that best describes your experience developing tax issues involving research, analysis, and incorporation of statutory or regulatory material on related issues.
 I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task independently, and I have trained others in performance of this task or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 I have performed this task with minimal supervision or review of my work products.
 I have performed this task independently, but not as a regular part of my job.
 None of the above


17.
Choose the one statement that best describes your experience developing compliance issues involving research, analysis, and incorporation of statutory or regulatory material on related issues.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task independently, and I have trained other in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job with minimal supervision or review of work product.
 I have performed this task independently, but not as a regular part of my job.
 None of the above.


18.
Select the response that best describes your experience in analyzing data or information, interpreting facts, and drawing logical conclusions.
 I have no experience in this area or have not performed this as a regular part of my job.
 I have analyzed data or information, interpreted facts, and drawn logical conclusions with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group.
 I have independently analyzed data or information, interpreted facts, and drawn logical conclusions.


19.
Choose all the responses that describe your work experience.
 A. I have been responsible for coordinating a team project.
 B. I have served as a mentor or coach for junior or incoming employees.
 C. I have provided or conducted instruction or training to less senior employees.
 D. I have been responsible for conducting meetings with or making presentations to external stakeholders.
 E. None of the above


20.
I have experience performing the following analytical and evaluative activities.
 A. I have applied fact-finding, analytical, and investigative techniques while participating in audits/evaluations.
 B. I have participated in audit/evaluation interviews to obtain information on industry members operations in support of Federal excises filed and paid, as well as ensuring compliance with applicable federal regulations.
 C. I have used qualitative and quantitative methods, and other statistical approaches and techniques to perform audit/evaluation reviews.
 D. I have organized the results of analysis for presentation to management.
 E. I have conducted research and analysis of data reviewed and collected for audits/evaluations.
 F. I have conducted review/evaluations of an agency/organizations internal control.
 G. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙