Position Title
AUDITOR
Agency
Joint Activities
Announcement Number
SDSE-26-12994659-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


7.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 15% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 15% of the time?
 Yes
 No


8.
This is a Financial Management Certified position IAW the National Defense Authorization Act
(NDAA) 2012, Public Law 112-81, Subtitle F-Financial Management, Section 1599d. Incumbent
shall comply with the requirements of this certification program.

FM Certification Level 2 Required.

Are you willing to obtain this certification?
 Yes
 No


9.
SCW: SC441 - This is a Non-Key Security Cooperation (SC) position based on the duties and
responsibilities. The position requires DoD SC Workforce (SCW) Certification. The incumbent must
complete certification-related training requirements in the SC Area of Concentration (AoC) within
the timeframe associated with the position's SCW certification level:
SC Execution Support Management (AOC)Basic Level--1 year (Basic); 3 years (Intermediate); 5 years (Advanced); and--Complete certification-related continuous learning requirements in accordance with the NationalDefense Authorization Act (NDAA) 2017, Title 10 United States Code, Section 384. Incumbent(s) ofthis position is required to comply with all Department of Defense, Defense Security CooperationAgency, and Department of the Army requirements of the SCW certification program.

Are you willing to obtain these certifications?
 Yes
 No


10.
In accordance with DoDM 8140.03 and supplemental Army guidance, the employee must obtain
and maintain the following requirements for each Cyber work role (except Data, AI, and/or
Software Engineering) at the assigned proficiency level: 1) Foundational qualification
requirements within 9 months, 2) Resident qualification requirements within 12 months, 3) 20
hours of Continuous Professional Development (CPD) per work role code (which can overlap).

Are you willing to obtain these certifications?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Auditor position with the Department of the Army.
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Auditor at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in accounting, or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: (1) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; OR (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; AND (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Auditor at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1). Provide audit report recommendations to identify specific actions required to correct problems, produce monetary and/or other benefits resulting in improved operational efficiency; 2). Maintain distribution and status of expired and cancelling year funds to ensure propriety, legality, and accurate reporting of congressionally appropriated and/or customer provided funds; and 3). Prepare audit lead sheets to identify potential weaknesses in management controls.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙