Position Title
SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12912031-AR-26-064 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Safety Office
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Safety Office
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you an Officer in the grade of O1 to O5, a Warrant Officer in the grade of WO1 - CW5, or an Enlisted member in the grade of E7 to E9 serving in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
All GS-0018 series personnel must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level and must have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level. Do you have these experiences?
 Yes.
 No, I don't.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 36 months experience performing industrial construction standards, methods, practices, techniques, materials, equipment, and utility systems sufficient to determine compliance with building safety standards and devise hazard control measures applicable to airport ground facilities and supporting industrial shops? Do you have knowledge of psychological and physiological factors sufficient to develop a ground aviation safety education activity for supervisors and employees, to motivate maintenance personnel to apply safe working practices and to persuade supervisors to accept changes or modifications where required to achieve a safe working environment? Can you perform safety and occupational health principles, practices, procedures and standards applicable to a full range of complex safety and occupational health management responsibilities at a military aviation installation and requiring the planning, organizing, directing, operating and evaluation of a safety and occupational health program related to ground aviation, industrial and marine operations? Have you performed aviation maintenance work processes and support equipment, airport ground operations, facilities and runway maintenance techniques, and industrial work processes?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative who is employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


4.
Have you ever been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙