Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-13037245-26-FPS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters in the Competitive Service (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard)? who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard) who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
After Department of Homeland Security Headquarters completes its hiring, the resumes of the remaining candidates referred for selection consideration may be shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you may continue to explore other job opportunity announcements. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies.


Assessment 1
Your responses in this Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be removed from consideration.


1.
Please select the following response that indicates how you meet the basic requirement for this position. Please choose only one response and be sure to document your claim in your application.
- A. I have completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience has been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position, AND completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Note: Transcripts (official or unofficial) must be submitted to support claim.
- B. I qualify as an Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade, unless granted a waiver (see Job Announcement). Note: SF-50(s) must be submitted to support claim.
- C. I do not meet both requirements in response A nor as an Exception in response B, but I wish to be considered for a possible waiver based on my demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and professional level contracting experience.
- D. My background does not match any of the above descriptions and I do not meet the basic entry requirements for this grade level.
 I have completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience has been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position, AND completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Note: Transcripts (official or unofficial) must be submitted to support claim.
 I qualify as an Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade, unless granted a waiver (see Job Announcement). Note: SF-50(s) must be submitted to support claim.
 I do not meet both requirements in response A nor as an Exception in response B, but I wish to be considered for a possible waiver based on my demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and professional level contracting experience.
 My background does not match any of the above descriptions and I do not meet the basic entry requirements for this grade level.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes how you meet the qualification requirements for this position at the GS-14 level.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-13 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing the following duties: 1) Serving as the primary point of contact for program officials on acquisition and administrative matters affecting the procurement of supplies and services; 2) Applying various procurement methodologies and practices to identify advantageous methods, terms, and courses of action for contracts; and 3) Serving as contracting officer authorized to perform pre-award and post-award procurement functions (i.e., solicit contract proposals, negotiate, enter into agreements, execute, and administer/terminate complex contracts).
 My experience is not reflected in any of the statements above and I do not qualify for this position.


3.
Certification Statement: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to this statement below, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙