Position Title
Secretary - Bowling
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26310 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Dec 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to work a Part-time work schedule. A part-time schedule describes work performed between 20 to 34 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current CNRH (Commander Navy Region Hawaii) Navy NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a current employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Completion of this questionnaire is required, it is a condition of employment.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary. The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
This position requires a minimum of one (1) year work experience in responsible clerical support work. Do you possess a minimum of one (1) year work experience?
 No, I do not possess a minimum of one (1) year work experience in this area.
 Yes, I do possess a minimum of one (1) year work experience in this area.


2.
This position is responsible for typing correspondence, reports, and other materials, maintaining various of files, regulations, manuals, and directives. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and/or work experience.
 I have at least one (1) year experience and/or knowledge in this area.
 I have at least two (2) years of experience and/or knowledge in this area.
 I have at least three (3) or more years of experience and/or knowledge in this area.
 I have no experience and/or knowledge in this area.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience in scheduling appointments and/or meetings, planning, and organizing.
 I have one (1) year of work experience in scheduling appointments and/or meetings, planning, and organizing.
 I have at least two (2) years of work experience in scheduling appointments and/or meetings, planning, and organizing.
 I have no work experience in scheduling appointments and/or meetings, planning, and organizing.
 I have at least three (3) or more years of work experience in scheduling appointments and/or meetings, planning, and organizing.


4.
This position requires having the knowledge of grammar, spelling, punctuation, and ability to type, operate a CRT (computer terminal) or Personal Computer to adapt to various software applications. Do you possess these skills and knowledge?
 No, I do not possess these skills and knowledge required for this position.
 Yes, I do possess these skills and knowledge required for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙