Position Title
Mason
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MWR-1612-SS-26-13025558-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority – Residency
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Independence National Historical Park is defined as 50 miles from the Independence National Historical Park 525 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19106.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised? If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you in your interest in the Seasonal Mason, WG-3603-10 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications. from the descriptions below, select the response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Seasonal Mason, WG-3603-10.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Mason, WG-3603-10 without more than normal supervision. Select only one letter. Your experience must be documented in your resume, if not, your score my be lowered or you may be found not qualified.

 I have experience performing the full range of duties of a Mason, without more than normal supervision. I have knowledge and experience that demonstrates the ability to do the work of this position at a journeyman level. Experience is defined as 1) Lays out masonry work and accurately lines up courses so that they are level and the corners are plumb; 2) Cuts and shapes stone, brick, and block; 3) Completes masonry repairs and finishes mortar joints to match undamaged portions of a structure and/or monument; 4) Has pratical knowledge of other construction trades; 5) Ability to read and write, and to interpret blueprints, work instructions and other technical guides; 6) Uses, operates and maintains all hand and portable power tools associated with the trades such as concrete mortar mixers, napping hammer, brick or skill saw, chisel, pick, etc.
 I do not possess experience and that demonstrates ability to perform the duties of a Mason, WG-3603-10 without more than normal supervision.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙