Position Title
Inpatient Registered Nurse-Acute Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13021536-26-GJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Nurse position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please respond to each question in the assessment questionnaire based on your actual education and experience that demonstrate your ability to perform the duties of this position. All responses are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation to support your answers, and you may be required to demonstrate your stated abilities through a practical performance evaluation. Ensure that your answers accurately reflect your qualifications, as any misrepresentation may affect your eligibility for employment.


1.
Required Qualification Statement
All applicants for Registered Nurse positions must have graduated from a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate State agency and accredited by either the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN, formerly NLNAC) or the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) at the time the degree was earned.
Graduates of foreign nursing programs may meet this requirement through possession of a current, full, active, and unrestricted RN license, which serves as verification of graduation from an approved school.
Completion of coursework equivalent to a nursing degree in an MSN Bridge Program that qualifies the applicant for professional nursing registration is also recognized as meeting the requirement for graduation from an approved nursing program.
Do you meet the requirements listed above?

 Yes, my nursing degree was accredited by ACEN or CCNE at the time of my graduation, and I will include an unofficial copy of my transcript with my application.
 HPT: I have not yet graduated, but I am currently enrolled in a VA-sponsored or VA-affiliated Health Professional Trainee (HPT) program that allows me to qualify. I understand that I must attach proof of HPT eligibility, such as an HPSP scholarship letter, SF-50 showing my internship, or other HPT documentation, along with my most recent unofficial transcript.
 Yes, I completed coursework in an MSN Bridge Program that is equivalent to a nursing degree and meets the requirement for eligibility for professional nursing registration. I will attach documentation verifying completion of this approved course of study.
 Yes, I graduated from a foreign school of professional nursing and possess a U.S. degree equivalency evaluation, such as ICD, CGFNS, or another accepted credentialing evaluation. I will attach proof of this evaluation with my application.
 No, my nursing education does not meet any of the categories listed above.


2.
Licensure Requirement
Do you currently possess a full, active, and unrestricted registration as a Registered Nurse in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (such as Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia?

 Yes, I possess a current, full, active, and unrestricted RN license, and I will submit a copy of my valid professional licensure with my application.
 No, I do not possess a current unrestricted RN license, or my license is temporary or restricted.


Reminder:-
Résumé - Must include job title, duties, month/year start and end dates, hours worked per week, and, if applicable, Federal grade level.
Transcripts - Required if qualifying based on education. Applicants educated outside the United States must submit an official ICD or CGFNS credential evaluation to verify foreign education.
Proof of Licensure/Certification - Current RN license and any required specialty certifications.
SF-50 - Submit your current and/or highest-grade SF-50 (for current or former Federal/VA employees). Award SF-50s are not acceptable.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification Statement
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information provided in this assessment questionnaire is true, accurate, and submitted in good faith. I understand that any intentional falsification, deception, or fraud in this application, its supporting documents, or any part of the examination or interview process may result in fines or imprisonment under 18 U.S.C. 1001. I further understand that all information I provide is subject to verification, and that selecting "No" or failing to respond to this item will result in being removed from consideration for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙