Position Title
HR Specialist (Recruitment & Placement)
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-TAL-12954803-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current employee of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; 
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced (CFR 330.702)  from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency?  If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
 
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is/was equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; 
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent;
It has been less than a year from your separation from Federal service (see ICTAP eligibility period CFR 330.708.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Macon, GA
 C. Kansas City, MO
 D. Durham, NC
 E. Boyers, PA
 F. Philadelphia, PA
 G. San Antonio, TX
 H. Norfolk, VA


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience comparable at to the GS-12 grade level or pay band in the Federal service (or equivalent) performing all of the following tasks:
Providing expert advisory or consultative services to managers, senior leaders, or HR staff on Federal recruitment and placement, delegated examining, merit promotion, hiring authorities, veterans' preference, qualifications, candidate assessment, or selection procedures; AND
Performing complex staffing or examining functions, such as conducting job analyses, identifying competencies, developing assessment tools, preparing vacancy announcements, reviewing applications for eligibility and qualifications, rating and ranking applicants, issuing certificates of eligibles, or auditing recruitment actions; AND
Using automated talent acquisition systems, such as USA Staffing, USA Hire, or similar systems, to support recruitment, assessment, applicant review, certificate issuance, onboarding, reporting, or process improvement; AND
Leading or managing HR projects or initiatives by developing project plans, coordinating team assignments, monitoring timelines, costs, deliverables, or quality standards, and communicating project status to internal or external customers; AND
Developing or delivering technical HR guidance, training, coaching, quality assurance reviews, or process improvements to ensure compliance with Federal personnel laws, regulations, policies, delegated examining procedures, or Merit System Principles.
 Yes
 No


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer with to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙