Position Title
ELECTRONICS EQUIPMENT REPAIR INSPECTOR (MERIT, T32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13067997-AR-26-269 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard.(Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/ MOS to include skill level. *


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
Drill status and Full-time positions listed separately
Duties listed under each position held(be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
Employer's name and address
Supervisor's name and contact information
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
High school graduation date, if applicable
AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position. 

 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the Minimum Requirements below?
Experience or training which demonstrates the applicant's knowledge of electrical or electronic theory, knowledge of common testing procedures, skill in the use of hand tools of the electronics trade, and skill in reading schematic?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess the specialized experience below?
Experience or training in utilizing principles, basic functions, and application of theory of electronic systems or equipment; Experience in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic equipment or systems; Experience in making mechanical repairs that required the use of precision measuring and calibrating equipment; Experience in using complex test equipment such as deviation meters, complex special test panels, etc; Experience which demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Please read and respond to all the questions below. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


6.
In detail, explain your experience or training in utilizing principles, basic functions, and application of theory of electronic systems or equipment.


7.
In detail, explain your experience in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic equipment or systems.


8.
In detail, explain your experience in making mechanical repairs that required the use of precision measuring and calibrating equipment.


9.
In detail, explain your experience in using complex test equipment such as deviation meters, complex special test panels, etc


10.
In detail, explain your experience which demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications.


11.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙