Position Title
Supervisory Management Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCJD-26-12877852-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

 Yes
 No


2.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Current IRS Employee

Do you currently work on a permanent competitive service appointment with the Internal Revenue Service?

You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

You can check your competitive service status by viewing your latest Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, Block 34, Position Occupied. If eligible, you will see 1-Competitive Service in this block.*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No
 NA - 1 Year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Management Analyst position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Management Analyst at the GS-14 a grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Choose all of the following statements that describe your experience in project management. (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have effectively communicated technical requirements to executive a variety of projects.
 B. I have monitored budgets to ensure the accuracy of accounts and appropriate spending patterns.
 C. I have organized, coordinated, and prioritized a variety of individual and team-based activities and projects, and worked independently or as part of a team as the situation requires.
 D. I have kept executives and other principals appropriately informed of the status of fluctuating priorities.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.


3.
Which of the following best describes your experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques to analyze and measure the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of programs?
 I have more than three years of experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques as described above.
 I have between one and three years of experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques as described above.
 I have less than one year of experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques as described above.
 None of the above.


4.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience summarizing and making recommendations for improvement in workflow processes?
 I have no education, training. or experience in performing this task/competency.
 I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee
 I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency.


5.
Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and highest level of experience with, development and/or implementation of new administrative procedures?
 I have no knowledge of, or experience with, development and implementation of new administrative procedures.
 I have knowledge of, or education in, development and implementation of new administrative procedures, but no experience.
 I have assisted in developing and implementing new administrative procedures.
 I have been responsible for developing and implementing new administrative procedures under supervision.
 I have been responsible for developing and implementing new administrative procedures without supervision


6.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience authoring and revising guidelines and standard operating procedures?
 I have played a support role in authoring or revising guidelines and standard operating procedure
 I have independently authored or revised guidelines and standard operating procedures.
 I have extensive experience authoring and revising guidelines and standard operating procedures and have trained others to complete these tasks
 None of the above.


7.
Please select the response that best describes your experience analyzing and interpreting information.
 I have some education, training, or experience in analyzing and interpreting information.
 I have performed basic analytical tasks in a work situation that required the interpretation of basic instructions, information or data in order to perform routine tasks or duties.
 I have performed analytical task(s) in a work situation requiring the interpretation and application of routine and non-routine information, instructions, guidelines, regulations or data in order to perform task(s) or duties.
 I have performed analytical task(s) in job situations that required the interpretation and application of non-routine and complex information, instructions, guidelines, regulations or data in order to perform task(s) or duties. I have demonstrated the ability to evaluate information and situations calling for good judgment and decision making to accomplish goals and objectives.
 I have evaluated and analyzed information using all available resources. I have extracted and analyzed precise and exact information and details obtained from observation and research. I have used appropriate analytical procedures and methods. I have assessed potential consequences of various scenarios and developed alternate solutions for the best course of action.
 None of the above.


8.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in using a variety of complex qualitative and quantitative analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to accomplish complex projects or studies of broad scope?
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others so that they can perform this task and/or normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


9.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your ability to communicate in writing in order to effectively prepare convincing narrative and technical reports. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have prepared detailed summary reports, including recommendations and possible solutions to program operations problems.
 B. I have drafted correspondence to external parties.
 C. I have independently responded to non-controversial requests or inquiries.
 D. I prepared presentation materials conveying technical or programmatic requirements.
 E. My written products have been convincing and recognized as high quality through a performance appraisal and/or awards.
 F. I have received training to prepare narrative and technical reports.
 G. None of the above.


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally?

 I have regularly served as a representative in dealing with managers and employees. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments.
 I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (i.e., representatives from within agency or department, other federal agencies, industry leaders, or congressional staffs).
 I have regularly conducted discussions and/or participated in workgroups as a program representative in whom the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation.
 I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are cooperative and working toward mutual goals.
 None of the above.


11.
Select the statement that most accurately describes your training and experience in supervising, motivating, training, and working effectively with a subordinate staff?

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


12.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with supervising others to produce complex management deliverables?

 I have performed such work in a supporting role.
 I have performed such work from my unit.
 I performed such work for organizational-wide programs.
 I have not performed such work.


13.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙