Position Title
MWR Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Director)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12892960 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Director) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one-year specialized experience knowledge of fitness, sports and aquatic policies, requirements, administrative practices and procedures related to the planning, budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating of sports and fitness programs and to the efficient operation and utilization of facilities and equipment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience in directing sports, fitness and aquatics programs.
 I am currently a Sports, Fitness or Aquatics Director in a Navy or other DoD MWR operation.
 My previous position was as a Sports, Fitness or Aquatics Director in a Navy or other DoD MWR operation.
 I am currently or was previously a Sports, Fitness or Aquatics Director within commercial/private sector sports, fitness or aquatics agency/organization.
 I have never held a Sports, Fitness or Aquatics Director position.


3.
Please choose the response below that best describes your supervisory experience with planning work, scheduling employees and training employees.
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have 3-5 years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have 1-3 years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have no supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.


4.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience with sports, fitness, aquatics program policies, practices and procedures.  
 I have experience with Department of the Navy recreation, sports, fitness or aquatics operating policies, regulations, guidelines and procedures.
 I have experience with the Department of Defense recreation, sports, fitness or aquatics operating policies, regulations, guidelines and procedures.
 I have experience within the commercial/private sector recreation, sports, fitness or aquatics operating policies, regulations, guidelines and procedures.
 I have no experience with recreation, sports, fitness or aquatics operating policies, regulations, guidelines and procedures.


5.
 Please choose the response below that best describes your ability to communicate clearly and effectively to all levels of the organization verbally and in writing.
 I have experience in developing written training, financial, customer service or other operational or informational briefs or materials for oral presentation at the supervisory/management or higher-ranking civilian/military officials.
 I have assisted in developing training, financial, or informational briefs for presentation for oral presentation at the supervisory/management or higher-ranking civilian/military officials.
 I have provided input to management or supervisors to developing training, financial, or informational briefs for oral presentation at the supervisory/management or higher-ranking civilian/military officials.
 I do not have experience with, assisted with or provided input to management or supervisors to developing training, financial, or informational briefs for oral presentation at the supervisory/management or higher-ranking civilian/military officials.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have a bachelor's degree in Recreation, Physical Education or related field, or have equivalent (four or more years) related work experience?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙