Position Title
INSTALLATION CHILD AND YOUTH PROGRAM DIRECTOR
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
KBNAF-2025-49 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the education, certification and/or experience to qualify for the position.  All responses must be supported by your resume.  Failure to respond or for supporting information not to be found in your resume, can/will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a 4-year degree in a field related to youth programs, such as Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Home Economics (with an emphasis in Human Development), Youth Development, Psychology, or Social Work; or other degree in a field appropriate to the position being filled AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in the related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field [24 higher level semester hours]) appropriate to the position (see above), plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master's degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood or human development emphasis), Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, or other degree in a related field of study.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Home Economics (human development emphasis), Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, or other degree in a field appropriate to the position being filled
 I have a non-related degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, and facility management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing complex programs, as described above, at the director level in a Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing complex programs, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing complex programs, as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing?
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙