Position Title
Supervisory Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12950230-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Veterans Health Administration. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job Title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates for each position; Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.


Basic Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


1.
English Language Proficiency - Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience or Education - The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 OR
 Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
OR
 Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
 I possess a Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I possess a Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I possess a Master’s Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I do not meet this requirement.
 I am a current/former Health Professions Trainee (HPT) and will meet this qualification at the time of appointment


3.
Graduate and/or Internship - Are you a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution).
 Yes
 No
 I am a current/former Health Professions Trainee (HPT) and will meet this qualification at the time of appointment


4.
Certification - Do you possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist.
 
 Yes
 No


5.
State Licensure - Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.


 Yes
 No


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


6.
GS-14 Supervisory Occupational Therapist Requirements: Carefully read the following description below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-14 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)

Do you possess at least (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-13) that is directly related to the  work of the position and has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Supervisory Occupational Therapist. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include but are not limited to: serve as subject matter experts and as consultants to occupational therapists and other medical center staff in evaluating and treating patients in the areas of occupational therapy that are beyond the general practice of occupational therapy. Demonstrate skills and techniques for a specific patient population that has highly complex occupational and/or psychosocial impairments. Initiate, lead, and support research projects related to clinical needs. This may include grant writing, guiding others in the process, and direct clinical participation in research.

NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week.
NOTE: Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 Yes, I possess at least (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-13).
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirement.


In addition to the specialized experience requirement, applicant must demonstrate all the following knowledge, skills, and abilities.


7.
GS-14 Supervisory Occupational Therapist Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the basic requirements for this occupation, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of evidence-based practices and clinical practice guidelines in multiple professional areas to use these resources to guide the program staff in providing clinically appropriate treatment interventions.
Skill in interpersonal relationships and conflict resolution in dealing with employees, team leaders, and administrators.
Ability to manage [resources] for a large, integrated service including not only occupational therapy, but also other focused rehabilitation, ancillary, or other health care services.
Ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing with a group of professional staff.
Ability to translate extensive rehabilitation knowledge into cogent and useful policy in complex facilities and/or across multiple sites.
Skill in providing clinical and administrative oversight [and supervision of] multidisciplinary rehabilitation programs in complex facilities and/or across multiple sites.
Ability to collaborate with strategic planning committees at local, VISN or national levels for new ventures addressing patient care delivery systems, facilities management, and system reorganizations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙