Position Title
NURSING ASSISTANT (SCI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12830059-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 18, 2025 to Wednesday, December 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Select the appropriate response to the following questions based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. NOTE (GRANDFATHERING PROVISION): All Nursing Assistants (NAs) employed in VHA on the effective date (May 22, 2024) of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the series and grade held that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: (1) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. (2) If an employee who was retained (grandfathered) under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee loses protected status of the grandfathering provision and must meet the full VA qualification standard basic requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d) "No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to meet the requirement of this position."


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


(EXPERIENCE) EDUCATION OR TRAINING: Six months of general experience. Experience must demonstrate the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills to perform the work of a NA. One year above high school with courses related to the NA occupation. Completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a nursing assistant may also meet in full the experience requirements for GS-3.


2.
Have you acquired at least Six (6)  months of general experience. (Experience must demonstrate the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills to perform the work of a NA OR One year above high school with courses related to the NA occupation) OR Completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a nursing assistant?TRANSCRIPTS OR PROOF OF TRAINING RELATED TO THE COURSE OF STUDY FOR NURSING ASSISTANTS MUST BE SUBMITTED AT TIME OF APPLICATION).
 Yes, I have at least the required experience or training or education as listed above.
 No, I do NOT have the required t experience or raining or education as listed above.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS: In addition to the Basic Requirements, applicants must also meet ALL of the grade requirements: (1) Knowledge of Current Professional. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with the current practice. (2) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, NA experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference, or through other independent means. (3) Part-time Experience. Part-time experience as a NA is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a NA employed 20 hours a week, or on a 1/2-time basis, would receive 1 full-time workweek of credit for each 2 weeks of service. The following questions reference grade determination at GS-0621, Nursing Assistant (Entry Level). In addition to the base requirements listed above, the below qualification requirements must be met for the GS-03 grade level: (A) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements, as listed in question 5. (B) Assignments. Individuals assigned as GS-3 NAs are considered to be at the entry level and are closely supervised.


3.
GS-3 Grade Determination: None beyond the basic requirements. Do you possess the basic requirements?
 Yes, I possess the basic requirements for the GS-03 grade level as a Nursing Assistant.
 No, I do NOT possess the basic requirements or the GS-03 grade level.


GS-4 Grade Determination: The following is GS-04 grade determination. Assignment (1) Individuals assigned as GS-4 NA] are considered to be at the intermediate or developmental level and are closely supervised. NAs at this grade level function as a member of the nursing care team and assist higher graded NAs, licensed nursing staff, and other members of the care team in the care of patients/residents receiving outpatient care, home or community living care or other patients/residents who are in acute, sub-acute, or chronic states of illness. The significant factor is that they provide care under close supervision and refer issues/questions to supervisors, higher graded NAs or other healthcare professionals.
In this role, the Nursing Assistant functions as a member of the nursing care team and assists higher graded NAs, licensed nursing staff, and other members of the care team in the care of patients/residents receiving outpatient care, home or community living care, or other patients who are in acute, sub-acute, or chronic states of illness. The Nursing Assistant in this role provides care under close supervision and refers issues/questions to supervisors, higher graded NAs, or other healthcare professionals.
Experience. One year of specialized experience as a [NA] or experience in another medical field (licensed practical nurse, health technician, hospital corpsman, etc.), performing technical and nursing skills requiring knowledge of the human physical and emotional states, therapeutic communication, and technical skills required for basic and intermediate treatments;
Education. Successful completion of 2 years above high school in an accredited institution with courses related to nursing care, health care or in a field of study appropriate to the specialization of the position, such as education in a program for psychology, psychiatric, or operating room technicians;
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate MUST demonstrate the following KSAs:
(1.) Ability to provide a range of patient/resident care and contribute to the completion of the nurse care plan and recovery of patients/residents.
(2.) Ability to observe patients/residents' or resident's physical or emotional status and refer deviations and/or problems to supervisor in a timely manner.
(3.) Ability to properly use equipment, materials and supplies in simple diagnostic and treatment procedures such as bladder scan, continuous passive motion device, blood glucose monitoring machine, specimen collection, etc.
(4.) Ability to communicate effectively with patients/residents, their families and other health professionals.


4.
GS-4: Do you have the experience OR education listed above, and can you demonstrate the KSAs listed above for GS-04 grade level? Note: The KSAs MUST be clearly identified in your resume, or an attached KSA document.
 Yes, I have the experience or education, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-4 grade level.
 No, I do NOT have the experience or education required, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-4 grade level.


GS-5 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements for this Nursing Assistant position, applicants must also meet the Grade Determination: Assignment. This is the full performance level for NAs. NAs at this grade level function as a member of the nursing care team and assist licensed nursing staff in the care of patients/residents receiving outpatient care, home or community living care or other patients/residents who are in acute, sub acute or chronic states of illness. The distinguishing factor is that patient/resident assignments typically involve more complex nursing needs which can vary within a range of predictable to unpredictable requirements. [NAs] at this level also assume more of a peer education/mentorship role.
(a) Experience. One year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-4 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the professional KSAs in subparagraph (c) below; 
(b) Education. Successful completion of a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree that included 24 semester hours of courses related to health care or possession of a bachelor's degree; 
(c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate MUST demonstrate the following KSAs:
(1.) Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care to patients/residents with physical and/or behavioral problems in a hospital, long term care or outpatient setting under the direction of a Registered Nurse and/or Licensed Vocational Nurse/Licensed Practical Nurse.
(2.) Ability to communicate orally with patients/residents, families, interdisciplinary team and other personnel. This includes serving as a preceptor to new NAs by assisting with the coordination of their orientation and overseeing/assessing their practical experience while in a clinical setting.
(3.) Ability to recognize and react to emergent patient/resident care situations and intervene while waiting for assistance. For example, recognizing need for basic life support, controlling bleeding and assisting with behavior crisis, etc.


5.
GS-5 Determination: Do you have the experience OR education listed above, and can you demonstrate the KSAs listed above for GS-05 grade level? Note: The KSAs MUST be clearly identified in your resume, or an attached KSA document.
 Yes, I have the experience or education, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-5 grade level
 No, I do NOT have the experience or education required, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-5 grade level.


Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed
Job title
Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status
(include average hours worked per week)
 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. 
Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree
Current  or former VA Employees must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses for the position that are listed in the education section. By providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions form the course number that the listed courses meet the requirement. (REQUIRED)


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙