Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-13051285-26-SK Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. NOTE: Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification may be given a temporary appointment at the entry level not to exceed two years as a graduate Clinical Laboratory Scientist. Grandfathering Provision. A Clinical Laboratory Scientist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/3/2024), are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:
Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program. OR
The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.
NOTE: Possession of a certification identified automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed (Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT; Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT; Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.).

Do you meet this requirement and provide copies of your transcript?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's degree or higher. 

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Certification: Candidates must meet one of the certification options below.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
*Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
*NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification (MLS or MT) may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of 4 the routes identified in question #5.

Exception for Non-Certified:
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.
 I possess a Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I possess a Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 I claim an exception to the certification; therefore, I acknowledge the requirements indicated above.
 I do not currently hold valid certification.


4.
Please provide your certification information.

(If claiming an exception, indicate "N/A" throughout.)

Type of Certification(s) and numbers:
Month and Year Certified/Expected Certification Date:
Accrediting Body:


5.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-7

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Select an answer that best describes your qualification.
 I possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science, or in a related science (for example, chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.) accredited; and, completion of a medical technology clinical practice program within the last 5 years. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*); and one course in mathematics.; and, a valid Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT) certification by the ASCP BOC, ASCP BOR, or AMT; and, one (1) year of post-MLT certification clinical laboratory experience within the last 3 years. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*), and one course in mathematics; and, 4 years of clinical laboratory experience within the last nine years performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood bank, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and clinical microscopy (or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university with 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) in biology including one semester in microbiology and 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) in chemistry, which may be obtained within or in addition to, the bachelors degree; and, completed of a 50-week U.S. Military MLT training program (with official certificate verifying completion of training) within the last 10 years; and, posses one (1) year full-time clinical laboratory experience within the last 10 years. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT; or Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT
 I do not possess the education or certification required for the GS-7 grade level.


6.
Please provide the following information regarding the clinical practice program you completed or are currently completing. Otherwise, indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Program:
Month and Year Completed/Expected Completion Date:


7.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-9

Experience or Education: Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
 I have a Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7).
 I do not meet the experience as listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
GS-9 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


9.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11

Experience or Education: Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-9).
 I do not meet the experience as listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
GS-11 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙