Position Title
Supervisory Equal Opportunity Specialist
Agency
Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity
Announcement Number
ST-13053544-26-MW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this position? (Note: You must meet one of the categories as outlined in the "Clarification from the Agency" section of the job announcement.)
 I am a current HUD employee that is Status eligible.
 I am a current HUD employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am a current HUD employee serving on a Schedule A Disability Appointment.
 I am CTAP eligible.
 I do not meet these eligibility requirements.


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a veteran that is eligible for consideration under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)?
 Yes
 No


6.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?

 Yes
 No


7.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


Assessment 1
1.
Select one choice from the options below that demonstrates how you meet the requirements of this GS-15 position. 
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service (may be obtained in the public or private sectors) which includes: 1) Directing, implementing and evaluating investigative and enforcement programs as they relate to fair housing; 2) Conducting investigations, equal opportunity compliance reviews, or litigation/litigation support to combat housing discrimination under Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (the Fair Housing Act) and other civil rights laws prohibiting housing discrimination; and 3) Experience in managerial techniques, human relations and skills to effectively address a wide variety of employees, stakeholder and client issues.
 My experience is not described in the statement above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙