Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist - INST (Assistant Recreation Supervisor)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
MXR-26-13045748 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read the following question before selecting a response. This question will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Any error in your response will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your resume must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide any requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet either requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.

A) Education:
Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education.

OR

B) Experience:

Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels.
Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management.
Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.


Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A.
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B.
 No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, or B.


NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the minumum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable).


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Assistant Recreation Supervisor position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.
You are the Assistant Recreation Supervisor at a Federal Correctional Complex with 2,500 inmates. On Monday morning, you discover that your quarterly budget shows only 60% of expected funds remaining with two months left in the quarter. Simultaneously, you receive notice that a major intramural basketball tournament scheduled for next week requires immediate equipment purchases, your supervisor has requested a comprehensive budget justification report by Friday, and two Recreation Specialists have called in sick, leaving fitness classes understaffed. The warden has also asked you to submit a proposal for an expanded arts and crafts program that would require additional funding and staffing.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate resource management approach in this situation?

 Immediately contact multiple vendors to compare costs, quality, and delivery times for the tournament equipment, then prepare a detailed budget analysis comparing current expenditures against projections. Create a prioritized spending plan for the remaining quarter, develop a written justification for the warden's proposal that includes specific funding and position requirements based on program data, redistribute staff coverage for the fitness classes, and submit all documentation to your supervisor within the required timeframe while maintaining regular program operations.
 Review the budget expenditure reports to identify where funds have been spent, contact the vendor you typically use for the tournament equipment to confirm availability and pricing, and ensure the equipment order is placed. Reschedule some fitness classes to ensure proper coverage given the staff shortages, prepare a response to the warden outlining the basic needs for the expanded program, and work on the budget justification report to meet the Friday deadline while adjusting your weekly schedule to accommodate these additional tasks.
 Cancel the non-essential fitness classes for the week due to staffing shortages and focus on the basketball tournament preparation. Review the budget tracking system to verify current expenditure balances, notify your supervisor about the budget concerns, and gather the necessary documentation about current recreation program participation rates and equipment inventory to include in the budget report. Coordinate with available staff to ensure the tournament proceeds as scheduled.
 Postpone the basketball tournament until the budget situation is clarified and additional funds can be secured. Prioritize the supervisor's budget report request by pulling together existing financial tracking documents and expenditure records. Temporarily suspend new program initiatives including the arts and crafts expansion proposal until staffing levels return to normal, and focus on maintaining existing recreation services with current resources while the staff shortage is resolved.
 None of the above.


2.
You are conducting the monthly interdepartmental staff meeting when tension escalates between Correctional Services and Recreation staff regarding gym access scheduling. Three inmates from different housing units have filed complaints about conflicting information they received regarding sign-ups for a new fitness program. Additionally, a vendor representative is waiting in your office to discuss equipment delivery delays that could impact next week's programming. Your supervisor has also asked you to provide immediate feedback on a proposed policy change that would affect inmate access to hobby craft areas. Later today, you must present the Recreation department's quarterly achievements at the executive staff meeting attended by the Warden and Associate Wardens.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?

 Facilitate the discussion between Correctional Services and Recreation staff by actively listening to both sides and guiding them toward a resolution that addresses security concerns and recreational access needs. Meet with the three inmates individually to clarify the fitness program requirements and provide consistent education about enrollment procedures and program goals. Negotiate with the vendor to establish a revised delivery timeline and communicate the impact to affected programs. Provide substantive feedback to your supervisor on how the policy change would operationally affect inmate activities and staff coordination. Prepare and deliver a comprehensive presentation to the executive staff highlighting program accomplishments, challenges, and recommendations, demonstrating your ability to represent the department at the institutional leadership level.
 Work with both Correctional Services and Recreation staff to identify the scheduling conflicts and propose a solution that can be implemented. Meet with the inmates to explain the fitness program sign-up process and assign them to appropriate activity schedules. Contact the vendor to get information about when the equipment will arrive and relay these findings to your supervisor. Discuss the policy change implications with your supervisor. Coordinate with other department representatives at the executive meeting to present the Recreation department's quarterly results.
 Listen to the concerns raised during the interdepartmental meeting and suggest that staff members work together to resolve the gym scheduling issue. Explain the new fitness program procedures to the inmates who filed complaints and clarify the sign-up requirements. Obtain information from the vendor regarding the delivery delays and inform your supervisor of the situation. Share your initial thoughts on the policy change with your supervisor. Attend the executive staff meeting and provide updates on recreational activities when called upon.
 Document the scheduling conflict discussed in the interdepartmental meeting and forward it to your supervisor for guidance. Prepare written responses to the inmate complaints about the fitness program to ensure consistency. Ask the vendor to send written confirmation of the new delivery dates. Request additional time to review the policy change before providing feedback. Submit a written summary of quarterly achievements for your supervisor to present at the executive staff meeting on your behalf.
 None of the above.


3.
Your Federal Correctional Complex houses 3,000 inmates with varying fitness levels, physical abilities, and interests. You've identified that 40% of inmates are not participating in any physical activity, health services reports show increasing obesity and cardiovascular issues, and the current recreation program consists only of open gym basketball and basic weightlifting four days per week. The Complex Recreation Supervisor has tasked you with transforming this limited offering into a comprehensive recreation program that addresses diverse fitness needs, accommodates inmates with physical limitations, and promotes long-term health outcomes. You have access to a multipurpose recreation space, outdoor areas, basic equipment, and a budget for program development.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate application of sports/fitness program knowledge in this situation?

 Design and implement a comprehensive recreation program that includes establishing and supervising multiple group fitness classes (aerobics, yoga, calisthenics) targeting different fitness levels and abilities, create and manage multiple sports leagues (basketball, softball, volleyball, soccer) with complex scheduling systems that accommodate housing unit rotations and security requirements, coordinate drafting processes to ensure balanced team participation across a large inmate population, develop adaptive programming for inmates with physical challenges, implement athletic training sessions for inmates interested in advanced fitness techniques, and establish a structured intramural program that addresses facility management, scheduling coordination, and oversight of all programming aspects to ensure physiologically sound and sustainable fitness outcomes.
 Enhance the existing basketball and weightlifting program by adding structured league play with an organized schedule and team drafts. Introduce two new group fitness options such as a basic aerobics class and stretching program to provide variety. Propose additional fitness equipment purchases to your supervisor to expand exercise options. Modify the open gym schedule to allow different housing units designated time slots, which improves access and participation. Work with health services to identify fitness-based programming needs and implement new rules and guidelines for safe equipment use based on their recommendations.
 Organize a basketball tournament using the current open gym schedule and existing policies. Coordinate an officiating training session for inmates interested in refereeing games. Participate in a fitness programming seminar to learn about group exercise techniques. Set up a basic sports league schedule for basketball that rotates teams on a weekly basis. Post sign-up sheets for inmates interested in participating in organized weightlifting sessions during designated recreation times.
 Expand the current four-day-per-week gym access to seven days per week to increase participation opportunities. Add a second basketball court time slot and additional weightlifting hours. Create posted guidelines for proper equipment use and safety rules. Establish a waiting list system for popular time slots to manage demand. Survey inmates to determine interest in other sports activities for potential future programming considerations.
 None of the above.


4.
You supervise a team of five Recreation Specialists at your Federal Correctional Complex. One specialist, who has been with the department for three years, consistently delivers quality programming but has expressed frustration about limited promotion opportunities and feeling "stuck" in the current position. Another specialist, hired six months ago, shows strong potential but struggles with time management and completing administrative paperwork, causing program documentation delays. A third specialist has been informally approached by two coworkers seeking advice about whether to pursue recreational therapy certification or apply for positions in other departments. Your department recently received feedback from an operational review indicating that while programs are well-run, there are inconsistencies in how staff document inmate participation and incident reports. You need to address these issues while maintaining strong program operations and team morale.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory and administrative approach in this situation?

 Meet individually with the experienced specialist to discuss career advancement opportunities, provide detailed information about promotion pathways within the Bureau and educational programs that could enhance qualifications, and offer to review application materials and provide mentorship for career development. Work directly with the newer specialist by providing structured guidance on time management techniques, establish clear expectations and deadlines for administrative tasks, and offer regular feedback and support to help develop these skills. Since colleagues are seeking the third specialist's advice, recognize this leadership potential by asking this person to help develop and facilitate a training session on career development options for the entire recreation staff. Design and lead a comprehensive training session for all staff addressing the documentation inconsistencies identified in the operational review, ensuring the training promotes professional growth and establishes standardized procedures that improve overall department operations.
 Schedule a team meeting to discuss the operational review findings and work with staff to implement improved documentation procedures. Meet with the experienced specialist to discuss feelings of career stagnation and provide information about educational opportunities and potential promotional paths within the organization. Provide the newer specialist with additional guidance on administrative requirements and follow up regularly to monitor progress on paperwork completion. Encourage the third specialist who peers approach for advice to continue being a resource to coworkers, and consider this individual for future team lead responsibilities. Assist staff in developing goals that align with both personal career aspirations and departmental needs.
 Notify all staff about upcoming training opportunities posted on the agency's website and encourage them to pursue professional development. Observe the newer specialist's work patterns to identify specific areas where time management and administrative skills need improvement, and provide guidance on prioritizing tasks. Inform the experienced specialist about available resources for researching promotion opportunities and educational programs. Recognize that the third specialist has become an informal mentor to colleagues and acknowledge this positive team dynamic. Assist staff in completing their annual training needs assessments to identify areas for professional growth.
 Recommend that the experienced specialist contact Human Resources to learn about promotion opportunities and consider applying for positions when they become available. Create a checklist of administrative tasks for the newer specialist with specific deadlines to improve time management and documentation completion. Suggest that the third specialist who receives questions from colleagues encourage them to review official guidance on career options and certification programs. Schedule a staff meeting to review the operational review findings and distribute written procedures for documentation standards to ensure consistency across the department.
 None of the above.


5.
As Assistant Recreation Supervisor, you face several writing demands this week. First, the Regional Office has conducted an operational review of your recreation programs and requires a written response to five findings related to equipment inventory procedures, program accessibility for inmates with disabilities, and staff training documentation. Second, another department head has sent an email requesting detailed information about recreation program scheduling to coordinate security staff coverage. Third, you need to document a significant incident that occurred during an intramural game where an inmate sustained an injury requiring medical attention, and both your supervisor and the Incident Review Committee will review this documentation. Fourth, you've been asked to contribute to the development of a new institutional policy regarding recreation program access during facility emergencies. Finally, one of your Recreation Specialists needs a detailed performance log entry documenting exceptional work on a complex programming initiative for an upcoming evaluation.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?

 Prepare a comprehensive written response to the Regional Office operational review that addresses each finding with specific corrective actions, timelines, and responsible parties, demonstrating thorough analysis of the issues and planned improvements. Draft a detailed response to the department head's inquiry that clearly explains the recreation scheduling framework, outlines coordination requirements, and facilitates interdepartmental understanding. Write a clear, factual, and thorough incident report documenting the injury with precise details about the circumstances, immediate response, and follow-up actions taken. Assist in reviewing and preparing the draft emergency access policy by providing written input on operational impacts, practical implementation considerations, and recommendations based on recreation program requirements. Compose a descriptive performance log entry that clearly articulates the Recreation Specialist's specific accomplishments, impact on program quality, and demonstration of initiative, providing substantive documentation for the personnel evaluation process.
 Prepare written memorandums responding to the operational review findings and outlining an action plan with corrective measures to address the identified deficiencies. Send a written response to the department head providing the recreation program schedule and explaining how it operates within the institution. Complete the incident report form documenting the injury that occurred during the intramural game, including relevant details about what happened. Draft internal memorandums with recommendations regarding the emergency access policy for distribution to your supervisor. Prepare a written summary of the Recreation Specialist's achievements on the programming initiative for inclusion in the performance file.
 Complete the incident report regarding the inmate injury using the standard departmental form. Respond to the department head's email with the recreation schedule information requested. Prepare written justification supporting the corrective actions needed to address the operational review findings. Provide written input on the emergency access policy draft when it circulates for comment. Document the Recreation Specialist's work on the programming initiative with a brief entry noting the successful completion of assigned duties.
 Forward the operational review findings to your supervisor with a brief memo outlining your initial thoughts and requesting guidance on response format. Reply to the department head's email with the current recreation schedule attached. Submit the required incident report documenting the injury event. Wait for the emergency access policy draft to be developed by administration before providing input. Make a note in the Recreation Specialist's file about the completed programming initiative for reference during the annual performance review period.
 None of the above.


6.
Your Federal Correctional Complex is planning to renovate the recreation facilities over the next fiscal year, and you've been tasked with analyzing current recreation operations to make recommendations for the new space configuration and updated programming. You have access to three years of recreation participation data from the SENTRY database showing program attendance trends, demographic information about inmate participation patterns, and equipment usage statistics. You've also received the most recent national recreation standards update that introduces new requirements for adaptive programming and mental health wellness activities. Additionally, a nearby federal facility with similar population size recently completed their recreation renovation, and their operational data is available for comparison. Your Complex Recreation Supervisor needs your analysis and recommendations to inform the renovation planning, budget requests, and policy updates that will govern the new facility's operations.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate approach to analyzing information and making recommendations in this situation?

 Generate comprehensive reports from the SENTRY database to analyze recreation participation statistics across demographics, time periods, and program types, identifying trends and gaps in current services. Conduct a detailed comparison of your facility's operations with the similar facility that completed renovations, reviewing their key operational indicators, space utilization, programming changes, and lessons learned to identify best practices and potential pitfalls. Systematically review current recreation curricula and programming against the updated national standards to ensure full compliance and identify areas requiring enhancement or modification. Synthesize this analysis into a comprehensive set of recommendations addressing facility design requirements, equipment needs, program modifications to meet new standards, policy changes needed to support adaptive and wellness programming, and budget justifications for additional resources or positions based on identified program needs and compliance requirements. Present findings that demonstrate thorough analytical process and evidence-based recommendations for the renovation and program development.
 Review the recreation participation data available in SENTRY to understand current program usage patterns and identify which activities are most popular. Examine the information from the similar facility's renovation to see what changes they made and how their new space is configured. Use the monitoring systems in place to track current equipment usage and facility utilization. Analyze the new national standards requirements and work with your supervisor to prepare documentation showing how current programs align with standards and what modifications may be needed. Assist with preparing the analysis that will inform budget requests and renovation planning by providing specific information about participation trends and program needs.
 Access the SENTRY system to pull participation data for recreation programs and provide this information to support the renovation planning process. Review the updated national standards and notify your supervisor about areas where current policies may conflict with new requirements. Utilize the monitoring system to gather information about current facility usage patterns. Provide information about your facility's operations to the renovation planning team when requested, including details about program scheduling, space limitations, and equipment inventory. Assist with the operational review process by sharing observations about how similar facilities have configured their recreation spaces.
 Request that the IT department generate standard SENTRY reports showing recreation participation over the past year for review. Visit or contact the similar facility to gather information about their renovation experience and new programming. Review the updated national standards documentation to identify major changes. Prepare a summary of current recreation offerings and facility limitations. Suggest that the renovation planning team consider expanding popular programs and updating equipment that is aging or outdated based on general observations of facility needs.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙