Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12848135 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Sunday, December 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How much work experience do you have in the use of a computer with with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, data base and presentation software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint?
 I have 5+ years of experience in the above.
 I have 4 - 5 years of experience in the above.
 I have 3 -4 years of experience in the above.
 I have 2 - 3 years of experience in the above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


2.
How much work experience do you have in general office skills such as document filing and retrieval systems and maintaining filling systems?
 I have 5+ years of experience in the above.
 I have 4 - 5 years of experience in the above.
 I have 3 - 4 years of experience in the above.
 I have 2 - 3 years of experience in the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have that required the knowledge of military personnel regulations, policies, and directives?
 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 2 - 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How much experience do you have in customer service to field questions from a variety of customers and offer solutions to the customers concerns or requests?
 I have 3+ years of experience in the above.
 I have 2 - 3 years of experience in the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙