Position Title
Student Trainee (Contracting)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLATrpSpt-26-12929042-INTRN Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a student who is CURRENTLY enrolled in a FULL-TIME baccalaureate or graduate degree program, in GOOD STANDING at an institution of higher education, and have completed at least ONE year of the program?

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your completed education and CURRENT enrollment eligibility.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


5.
What is your academic major or specialization?


6.
What is your anticipated date of graduation?


7.
I understand that to be considered for this position I must submit a copy of my transcripts and, if not currently enrolled, proof that I have been accepted for enrollment in an academic institution, and that the required document(s) must be submitted by the vacancy closing date. The required transcripts/documents are attached.
 Yes
 No


8.
I understand if I will graduate by the vacancy closing date, I must provide proof that I am either enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an accredited academic institution. The required proof is attached.
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable. I will not be graduating by the closing date of the announcement.


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that most closely represents the HIGHEST level of successfully COMPLETED education.

 I am currently attending high school or enrolled in a General Education Diploma (GED) program.
 I have completed high school or a GED program, AND I have LESS THAN one academic year of post-high education. (I have NOT completed 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in an accredited college or university)
 I have completed ONE academic year of POST-HIGH SCHOOL education. (One academic year of undergraduate education is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in an accredited college or university)
 I have completed TWO academic years of POST-HIGH SCHOOL education. (Two academic years of undergraduate education is defined as 60 semester hours, 90 quarter hours, or the equivalent in an accredited college or university)
 I have completed FOUR academic years of POST-HIGH SCHOOL study leading to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution recognized by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education. (Four academic years of undergraduate education is defined as 120 semester hours, 180 quarter hours, or the equivalent in an accredited college or university)
 I possess a Bachelor's degree or higher OR I have at least one full year of graduate level study.
 My education level is not specified above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙