Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
314-26-OCM-12987758-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veteran Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience and/or education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


1.
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Roanoke, VA, Veterans Benefits Regional Office (VARO), or current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible? Are you currently a permanent employee of Roanoke, VA VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, I am a permanent employee of the VA, Roanoke, VA Regional Office (You must submit a recent SF-50 from that agency.)
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


Time-in-Grade - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.


2.
Please describe your time-in-grade for the GS-07.
 I have one year time in grade at the GS-05, or I previously held the GS-07 or a higher grade.
 I do not have time-in-grade for the GS-07; therefore, I am NOT eligible to qualify at the GS-07 level. Select only one response.


3.
Please describe your time-in-grade for the GS-09
 I have one year time in grade at the GS-07, or I previously held the GS-09 or a higher grade.
 I do not have time-in-grade for the GS-09; therefore, I am NOT eligible to qualify at the GS-09 level.


Minimum Qualifications - This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
To qualify at the GS-07 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined (1) The ability to work with direct supervision or guidance when providing customer service, benefit counseling, and claim processing. (2) The individual must possess knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I possess1 full year of graduate level education. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


5.
To qualify at the GS-09 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined (1) The ability to work with minimum supervision or guidance when providing customer service, benefit counseling, and claim processing. (2) The individual must possess moderate knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I possess master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or
 B. or J.D., if related. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


Verification Statement - Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙