Position Title
Physician (Field Medical Officer)
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
DHA-12935393-26-OHS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
ALL US CITIZENS
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Miami, FL
 C. Chicago, IL
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Houston, TX


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be removed from consideration.


1.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT - DEGREE
To qualify for this GP-0602-14 position, you must have a Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association; or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

If you have a degree from a Foreign Medical School, a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States.  Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.

NOTE: To receive consideration for this position, you must submit a copy of your transcripts for review. Your supporting documents must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 I meet the basic requirement identified above.
 I do not meet the basic requirement identified above.


2.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT - LICENSURE
To qualify for this GP-0602-14 position, you must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.

NOTE: To receive consideration for this position, you must submit a copy of your license. Your supporting documents must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 I meet the basic requirement identified above.
 I do not meet the basic requirement identified above.


3.
Please indicate if your current, active, full, and unrestricted license as a physician was issued by a state, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. If issued by a state, please identify the state. If issued by a territory of the United States, please identify the territory. If you fail to answer this question with a complete answer, your application will be considered incomplete and you will be removed from consideration for this position. Incomplete responses such as "see resume" or "see attached" will not be accepted as a complete answer.


4.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT - GRADUATE TRAINING
Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, to qualify for this GP-0602-14 position, you must have had at least 4 years of supervised experience in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training in a clinical setting, i.e., internship or residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. NOTE: Graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. The documented completion of a residency or equivalent program and active board certification is strongly preferred.

Select the response that most accurately describes your graduate training background.
 I have completed a 4-year internship program which involved a broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA).
 I have completed 4 years of a residency program which involved training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have completed 4 years of a fellowship program which involved advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training.
 I do not have the graduate training as described above.


5.
Please enter the beginning and ending dates, and where you completed your graduate training (internship/residency/fellowship). Please include the location as well. If you fail to answer this question with a complete answer, your application will be considered incomplete and you will be removed from consideration for this position. Incomplete responses such as "see resume" or "see attached" will not be accepted as a complete answer.


6.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATION
Select one statement from the choices below that best describes your experience as related to the specialized experience requirements for the Physician (Field Medical Officer), GP-14 position.

NOTE: Your resume must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 In addition to the basic requirements, I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector which has given me the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience is defined as: 1) applying knowledge of a wide range of medical care services when engaging with public safety workforces, senior leadership, and clinical teams at all levels of government and in context of major special events or crises; 2) providing subject matter expertise on matters involving medical, workforce health and safety, and public health preparedness efforts; and 3) developing new theories, programs, and policies to enhance strategic health security operations.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


7.
Please identify your area(s) of medical expertise/specialty for which you have direct work experience.


8.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration of this position.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙