Position Title
RANGE OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12902995-AR-26-114 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 05, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) full-time Dual Status Army National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1 or 2). 

Lateral requests must be a current full-time Tennessee National Guard PERMANENT (Tenure 1 or Tenure 2) on-board employee, in the same occupational series, same pay grade or higher and meet the qualification requirements for the position blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 24 months or 1-year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled; thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management; experience developing administrative procedures?
 Yes
 No


3.
How would you handle a situation where a last-minute, high-priority request for range time conflicts with a previously scheduled activity?


3a.
Provide an example of a prior job related experience that caused you to deal with conflict in scheduling. What was the situation? How did you handle it?


4.

How do you stay current with changes in safety protocols and regulations related to range operations?



4a.
Describe a time you had to enforce safety protocol or regulatory guidance that was met with resistance. How did you handle it?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙