Position Title
ELECTRONICS MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12914735-AR-26-080 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Combined Support Maintenance Shop West (This includes Annex 11 and Anex 22)
 AOC 2: NG employees in the DCSG4 (This includes Combined Support Maintenance Shop - East, Director of Logistics, State Surface Maintenance Office, FMS's 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 16, 17, 24, 27, 28, 29, and 33, and the Unit Training Equipment Site)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you an Enlisted member in the grade of E1 to E7 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training which demonstrates the applicants knowledge of electrical or electronic theory, knowledge of common testing procedures, skill in the use of hand tools of the electronics trade, and skill in reading schematics?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience or training in utilizing principles, basic functions and application of theory of electronic systems or equipment? Experience in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic equipment or systems? Experience in making mechanical repairs that required the use of precision measuring and calibrating equipment? Experience in using complex test equipment such as deviation meters, complex special test panels, etc.? Experience which demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙