Position Title
Social Worker-(HUD VASH)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13054089-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfathering Provision: A Social Worker employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (9/10/2019) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0185-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you hold a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)?
Graduates of schools of social work that are in candidacy status do not meet this requirement until the school of social work is fully accredited.

Note: A doctoral degree in Social Work may NOT be substituted for the master's degree in social work.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master’s degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
GS-11 Social Worker Licensure: Do you have a current and active license or are certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level?
VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure/certification examinations.

You must submit a copy of a State certified documentation to support independent practice level. Expired licenses will not be considered. Provisional or intern licenses are not eligible for GS-11 grade level.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


3a.
Please provide your license/certification information.

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


4.
GS-11 Experience or Education: Do you possess one year of post-MSW experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the field of health care or other social work-related settings, (VA or non- VA experience)?
Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: Comprehensive background in clinical social work, specifically focusing on assessing, diagnosing, and treating individuals with complex physical health, mental health, and substance use disorders. Expertise and training needed to conduct thorough psychosocial assessments, formulate individualized treatment plans, and deliver specialized individual and group case management and therapy-particularly for vulnerable populations like chronically homeless individuals dealing with co-occurring conditions, serious mental illness, and trauma like PTSD. Additionally, expert-level skills in early intervention, crisis management, and implementing specialized strategies to help clients maintain long-term recovery and housing stability, alongside the ability to develop policies, evaluate the effectiveness of social work practices, and provide professional training or clinical supervision to other team members and trainees. - OR - Do you possess a doctoral degree in social work from a school of social work?

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


4a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your doctoral degree, otherwise indicate N/A.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


5.
GS-11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the licensure and experience or education for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
(1) Knowledge of community resources, how to make appropriate referrals to community and other governmental agencies for services, and ability to coordinate services.
(2) Skill in independently conducting psychosocial assessments and treatment interventions to a wide variety of individuals from various socio-economic, educational, and other backgrounds.
(3) Knowledge of medical and mental health diagnoses, disabilities and treatment procedures (i.e. acute, chronic and traumatic illnesses/injuries, common medications and their effects/side effects, and medical terminology) to formulate a treatment plan.
(4) Skill in independently implementing different treatment modalities in working with individuals, families, and groups who are experiencing a variety of psychiatric, medical, and social problems to achieve treatment goals.
(5) Ability to provide consultation services to new social workers, social work graduate students, and other staff about the psychosocial needs of patients and the impact of psychosocial problems on health care and compliance with treatment.

It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit. 
We cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


To ensure your application is fully considered, please make sure your resume includes the following:

- A complete work history, including job titles, duties, start and end dates (month/year), hours worked per week, and salary for each position.- Detailed descriptions of experience that clearly show how you meet the specialized experience requirements listed in the announcement.- Any relevant certifications, licenses, education, or training.- All federal experience must include pay plan, series, and grade level.- Use clear, concise language focused on duties and accomplishments.- Ensure your resume reflects full-time or part-time status for each role.- Upload all required documents listed in the announcement to avoid disqualification.




Applicants currently serving or previously served in the Federal civilian workforce must submit SF-50(s) with their application.

Please include:

- Your most recent non-award SF-50 showing your current or highest grade, step, tenure, and position information.- If you have held a higher grade previously, also submit the SF-50 documenting that grade (non-award).- Ensure your SF-50 displays actual appointment information-awards or mass actions cannot be accepted to verify grade or tenure.- If applying for a position with time-in-grade requirements, submit SF-50(s) that clearly show you meet those requirements.

Failure to provide the appropriate SF-50 documentation may result in ineligibility or lowered consideration.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙