Position Title
HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT REPAIRER/MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12983301-AF-26-498 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member or employee of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to make repairs or the ability to assist with repairs that can be accomplished by removing, adjusting, or replacing defective or worn parts.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-8:
Must have experience or training showing basic knowledge of how vehicle parts and systems work together. Ability to do routine maintenance and simple repairs on combat, tactical, commercial, and special purpose vehicles, following instructions or working with others. Knowledge of basic electrical, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems well enough to help find problems and replace common parts like switches, hoses, or relays. Ability to use standard tools to remove, replace, and adjust parts, and do basic checks. Ability to follow manuals and instructions to complete assigned tasks. Basic understanding of hydraulic systems and controls and can help others with repairs. Ability to help repair or overhaul major parts like engines, transmissions, and electrical systems, usually as part of a team or with supervision. Ability to identify and replace simple electrical parts, like fuses or bulbs.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position and grade)***
 Yes
 No


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-10:
Must have experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems. Knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards. Ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position and grade)***
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E3/A1C - E6/TSgt)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.


6.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of transfer/enlistment/reinstatement?


7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙