Position Title
Maintenance Worker Helper
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-12997710-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 03, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Worker Helper position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Worker Helper duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance duties assisting carpenters, plumbers, electricians and painters perform tasks of the trade. I am skilled in maintenance and repair of interior electrical systems and plumbing, utilizing woodworking techniques and basic shop mathematics to assist in repairs, preparing and painting surfaces after repair work has been completed, cleaning and maintaining mechanical rooms and operating and maintaining light vehicles, small engine equipment and hand tools. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance duties carpenters, plumbers, electricians and painters perform tasks of the trade. I am skilled in repairing interior electrical systems and plumbing, utilizing basic shop mathematics to assist in repairs, painting surfaces after repair work has been completed, cleaning mechanical rooms and operating vehicles, equipment and tools. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance helper duties assisting carpenters, plumbers, electricians and painters perform tasks of the trade. I can maintain interior electrical systems and plumbing, utilize basic shop mathematics to assist in repairs, paint surfaces, clean mechanical rooms and operate vehicles, equipment and tools. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance duties, or I have received training on assisting journeymen perform trade tasks.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the section process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙