Position Title
Research Geologist (Postdoctoral Research Fellowship)
Agency
Geological Survey
Announcement Number
USGS-26-12999128-PRF-CK Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to all eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered. We can only verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation. Please see the "Required Documents" section of the announcement for specific requirements.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
The Federal Government gives strong priority to U.S. citizens and nationals, but for these two-year excepted service positions, non-citizens may be considered under certain circumstances.

Are you a United States Citizen?

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a Ph.D. in a directly related field of study received in the last 5 years?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Basic Requirements for GS-1350: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Geologists.

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in geology. In addition to the geology course work included in the degree, it must also have included or been supplemented by 20 additional semester hours in any combination of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum engineering, computer science, planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, and cartography.
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes 24 semester hours or equivalent in geology plus 20 additional semester hours or equivalent in a combination of courses specified in choice 1, plus appropriate experience and/or additional education totaling 4 years.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
GS-12: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have professional experience, graduate education, or a combination of professional experience and graduate education. Select the one response below that best describes your education and experience.

 I possess at least 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level as described in the qualifications section of the vacancy announcement.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a directly related field of study.
 I possess a combination of successfully completed progressive graduate level education, as described above, that is beyond the second year of graduate study and professional experience, as described above.
 I do not meet the requirement as described.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙