Position Title
LEAD FINANCIAL SERVICES TECHNICIAN (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
FL-13062447-AR-T5-26-900 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Have you ever had a security clearance suspended/revoked?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.

APPLICANT ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENT

This position is open ONLY to current on-board Title 5 (T5) Federal employees within this agency as of the closing date of the announcement.

Are you currently an on-board T5 Federal employee within this agency?

Applicants must answer this question based on their current employment status as of the closing date.

REQUIRED SF-50:
Applicants must upload their most recent SF-50 to be considered.
The SF-50 must reflect your current Title 5 Federal employment status.

IMPORTANT: Applicants should upload an SF-50 reflecting their most recent General Adjustment for the current year.
For example:

Acceptable: Most recent SF-50 showing the current year's General Adjustment.
Not recommended: Submitting an outdated or incorrect SF-50 may hinder verification of your eligibility and could result in you not being considered for the position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to all the questions below. For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level, in the normal line of progression through federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector involving the analysis, validation, processing and correction of military and civilian financial and travel pay transactions; independently utilizing regulatory guidance and a complete understanding of fiscal related automated systems and processes to ensure the accuracy and validity of disbursements, collections and adjustments related to financial or travel allocations?
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please describe in detail how your experience satisfies the experience requirements referenced above. 


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes. I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙