Position Title
IT SPEC (CUSTSPT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12839924-AF-25-278 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E4 to E7 in any branch of service and willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 171st Air Refueling Wing
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 171st Air Refueling Wing (This includes 258th ATCS, 146 Weather Flight, 146 ARS, and 147 ARS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process? Experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems.

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience, education, or training in analysis of the interrelationship of pertinent components of the system? Do you have experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment? Do you have experience scheduling the sequence of programs to be processed by computers where alternatives had to be weighed with a view to production efficiency?

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Do you have at least 36 months experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization? Do you have experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls? Do you have experience that requires adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment? Do you have experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion?

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


4.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙