Position Title
PUBLIC AFFAIRS SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12940289-AF-26-450 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education, and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member or employee of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a, Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 32 Technician with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an Indefinite (Tenure 3) Title 32 Technician with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a Traditional (Drill, ADSW, etc.) member of the Montana Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am currently a member of the Armed Forces, and I am willing and eligible to transfer to the Montana Air National Guard. (Area IV)
 I am eligible for Montana Air National Guard membership, and I am willing to join. (Area V)
 I am not eligible for Montana Air National Guard membership, OR I am unwilling to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education or training in administrative, professional, investigative and/or technical work. Experience evaluating information and/or using analytical skills to disseminate effective communication. Experience in compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Experience using computers and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements as described above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-09
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education, or training involving knowledge of writing, communication principles, methods and techniques that relate to the public affairs of an agency. Experience in applying and adapting knowledge of strictly controlled situations of an agency. Experience writing articles on routine events of non-controversial subjects. Experience responding timely and appropriately to requests for information concerning agency programs and services. Experience participating in meetings with specialized groups to listen to and understand feedback on agency programs that are of particular interest to public. (MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences, if using experience to qualify)


B) master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related.
(MUST provide copies of all relevant transcripts, if using education to qualify. Official transcripts may be required at a later date.)

C) A combination of Specialized Experience and education as outlined above which, when combined, equal 100% of the requirement.

Do you meet one of the experience or education requirements listed above?

 I meet the Specialized Experience requirements in item A.
 I meet the Education requirements in item B.
 I meet the combination Specialized Experience and Education requirements in item C.
 I do not meet the requirements listed in items A, B, or C.


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-11
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of writing and communication principles, methods and techniques that relate to public affairs of the military. Experience developing new information materials including news releases, fact sheets, brochures, booklets, broadcast spots, etc., that increase communication with the agency's audiences. Experience making on-the-spot presentations to audiences with opposing points of view or erroneous understanding of agency positions. Experience responding timely and appropriately to requests for information concerning agency programs and services. (MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences, if using experience to qualify)

B) Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related
(MUST provide copies of all relevant transcripts, if using education to qualify. Official transcripts may be required at a later date.)

C) A combination of Specialized Experience and education as outlined above which, when combined, equal 100% of the requirement.

Do you meet one of the experience or education requirements listed above?

 I meet the Specialized Experience requirements in item A.
 I meet the Education requirements in item B.
 I meet the combination Specialized Experience and Education requirements in item C.
 I do not meet the requirements listed in items A, B, or C.


5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted: E5 - E7)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the Montana Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the Montana Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


6.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/reinstatement?



7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙