Position Title
Blocker and Bracer (Wood Worker/Packer)-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-460208-12889418-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 16, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the needed to qualify for a Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator), WG-4602-08 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator), WG-4602-08, with the Ability to Do the Work without More Than Normal Supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.
 I am able to perform Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator) tasks including operating one or more electric, gasoline, diesel, or LPG powered heavy fork lift trucks. Judging size of doorways and aisles, size of load (i.e., height, length, width, and weight), capability of fork lift truck, and proper load balance in order to safely load and unload items. Stacking, moving, and arranging items on pallets considering height, weight, and special handling requirements. Using automated equipment, such as optical readers, scanners, and computer keyboards to enter and extract data. Completing required forms and documents indicating stock description, quantity, unit of issue, and labeling requirements for incoming and outgoing stock and the ability to screen documents and find missing data. Loading and arranging cargo properly onto vehicles and 463L aircraft pallets, using appropriate tie-downs, such as chains, binders, or straps for safe transit on military and commercial aircraft and public roads at highway speeds or under similar driving circumstances with a high degree of independence.
 I am able to perform a full range of Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator) tasks including operating one or more electric, gasoline, diesel, or LPG powered heavy fork lift trucks. Judging size of doorways and aisles, size of load (i.e., height, length, width, and weight), capability of fork lift truck, and proper load balance in order to safely load and unload items. Stacking, moving, and arranging items on pallets considering height, weight, and special handling requirements. Using automated equipment, such as optical readers, scanners, and computer keyboards to enter and extract data. Completing required forms and documents indicating stock description, quantity, unit of issue, and labeling requirements for incoming and outgoing stock and the ability to screen documents and find missing data. Loading and arranging cargo properly onto vehicles and 463L aircraft pallets, using appropriate tie-downs, such as chains, binders, or straps for safe transit on military and commercial aircraft and public roads at highway speeds or under similar driving circumstances on my own initiative under limited supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I am able to perform common Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator) tasks including stacking, moving, and arranging items on pallets considering height, weight, and special handling requirements. Using automated equipment, such as optical readers, scanners, and computer keyboards to enter and extract data. Completing required forms and documents indicating stock description, quantity, unit of issue, and labeling requirements for incoming and outgoing stock and the ability to screen documents and find missing data. Performing a wide range of material handling and heavy capacity crane/fork lift operating duties. I work under the close supervision of a journeyman Blocker and Bracer who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I am able to perform simple Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator) tasks including performing a wide range of material handling and heavy capacity crane/fork lift operating duties. Receiving, storing, selecting, shipping, pickup, and delivery of general, oversized, or specialized bulk materials and equipment.
 I have no experience or training as a Blocker and Bracer (Crane, Forklift, Motor Vehicle Operator).


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙