Position Title
Recreation Assistant Leader (Sailing Instructor)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12914047 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Apr 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Lead Recreation Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
How many years of Sailing do you have in a facility or program? (Must be documented on your resume to get credit)
 I have one or more years.
 I have less than one year.


2.
Are you familiar with boating terminology, water and boating safety, and handling of boats (launching, mooring, etc)?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
Are you able to pass standard swim test by swimming two widths of the pool without touching bottom or any other support?
 Yes, I'm able to pass standard swim test by swimming two widths of the pool without touching bottom or any other support.
 No, I'm not able to pass standard swim test by swimming two widths of the pool without touching bottom or any other support.


4.
Are you willing and able to work an irregular schedule which may require recall and early shift, late shift, evening, weekend, and/or holiday hours?
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙