Position Title
Installation Fleet and Family Readiness Director (IN9)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-1128 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 28, 2025 to Friday, December 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Installation Fleet & Family Readiness Director position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have five or more years of experience with organizing and administering a comprehensive quality of life (QOL) and/or quality of service (QOS) program for a military organization?
 
 
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience in financial resource management, procurement policies and procedures; and financial analysis and budget planning?
 I have experience in all areas of financial resource management within Navy NAF.
 I have experience in some areas of financial resource management within the Department of Defense (DoD).
 I have experience in financial resource management obtained from a non-DOD federal agency or from private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with formulating strategic policies and procedures to administer personnel readiness, community support functions, mission sustaining and quality of life programs?
 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above within the Department of Navy.
 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above within DoD Installation(s).
 I have 1-3 years of experience as described above within Navy Fleet and Family Readiness (FFR).
 I have 1-3 years of experience as described above within DoD Installation(s).
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above within Navy FFR or DoD Installations.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have with the development and execution of short and long-range planning pertaining to programming and budget execution?
 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3-5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience evaluating and improving program effectiveness.
 Led one or more project team(s) engaged in analyzing policies and programs. I planned and facilitated team efforts and ensured that established goals and priorities were accomplished.
 Led one or more team(s) engaged in policy and program implementation for which new approaches were used. I ensured that team members had knowledge of the effects of relevant laws and regulations on implementation and engagement strategies.
 Designed and conducted one or more projects to assess and recommend changes and improvements to an organizational or public program. My recommendations included changes to program goals, timetables, and priorities.
 Managed an on-going program for which legal, regulatory, or policy requirements were changing or being considered. I analyzed and interpreted potentially new and revised requirements to assess their impact on project goals and objectives and adjusted priorities for one or more programs teams under my direction.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙