Position Title
Director of Strategic Communications
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
IMP-12953009-26-WC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Merit Plan Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Before applying, you are encouraged to thoroughly read the Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) for additional information regarding this vacancy. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. You must submit the required documentation to verify your eligibility as indicated. Failure to provide the required documents WILL render you ineligible for consideration.


Education cannot be substituted for experience at this grade level.


TIME-IN-GRADE (TIG) RESTRICTIONS: Current or former Federal employees applying for advancement to a position above their current (or former) grade level must have completed a minimum of one year (52 weeks) in a position no more than one grade lower (or equivalent) than the position to be filled.


1.
To qualify at the GS-15 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service (or comparable experience outside the federal government) that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized  experience for this position is defined as leading and coordinating cross-functional initiatives; developing and implementing organizational polices; advising senior leadership on legislative, communications, media relations, and external affairs matters; managing congressional engagement and stakeholder outreach activities; overseeing internal and external communications programs, including media relations and public messaging; and leading staff, including managing performance and developing employees to support mission priorities.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above. (Claimed experience must be supported by your resume.)
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if my resume does not support or substantiate my responses to the assessment questionnaire, my application will be removed from consideration. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, my rating will be lowered, my job eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. An answer to this question is required.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙