Position Title
Staff Optometrist (Polytrauma)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12943296-26-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs? This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Staff Optometrist, VP-0662 - The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS OR PROVIDE THE NECESSARY INFORMATION MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.

To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard, are considered to have met all basic requirements for the occupation.

Please choose the best (most appropriate) answer to determine your eligibility for this position.


1.
Status: Must be a citizen of the United States (U.S.) in accordance with section 7402(c) to title 38, United States Code (U.S.C). 

Please indicate your citizenship status.
 U.S. Citizen
 Permanent Resident Alien
 H-1B Temporary Worker Visa
 O-1 Temporary Worker Visa
 TN Temporary Worker Visa
 J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency: Optometrists appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7402(d) and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education: Do you possess a degree of Doctor of Optometry resulting from a course of education in optometry?  

The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools or colleges approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed.  Approved schools are:
   (1) United States and Canadian schools or colleges of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on
        Optometric Education (ACOE), in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
   (2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth
         of the United States, or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure.
 Yes. I graduated from a United States school or college of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
 Yes. I graduated from a Canadian school or college of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
 No; however, I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


3a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your degree of Doctor of Optometry education:
Type of Degree (e.g., Doctor of Optometry (O.D.))
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Month and Year conferred


4.
Residency Training or Comparable Experience: Have you successfully completed (or are expecting to complete) residency training, approved by the Secretary of VA in an accredited post-graduate training program, or have comparable experience, as
described below:

   (a) Approved residencies are those with accredited or within pre-accredited status by the ACOE, in the list published for the year the residency was completed.
   (b) Two years of licensed clinical optometric practice in the United States consisting of active involvement in the management of medically complex patients.

 Yes. I completed an accredited (or within pre-accredited status) residency by the ACOE as above described.
 Yes. I have two years of licensed clinical optometric practice in the United States consisting of active involvement in the management of medically complex patients.
 No; however, I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No; however, I will soon complete residency training from an accredited (or within pre-accredited status) residency by the ACOE as above described.
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


4a.
Provide the following information regarding your Residency:
Name of institution where Residency was completed (or will soon be completed)
Specialty/Area of Emphasis (if any)
Physical location of the institution (complete address)
Date residency was initiated (i.e., Month, Year)
Date residency was completed (i.e., Month, Year) (or will soon be completed)

If you institution is affiliated with a university, please provide names and locations of institution and university.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards.


5.
License: Do you currently possess a current, full and unrestricted license to practice optometry, and maintain a current registration in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia that requires successful passage of all parts of National Board of Examiners in Optometry intended for basic licensure?

The Optometrist must maintain current registration in the state of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure.
 Yes. I hold a current, full and unrestricted license to practice optometry as above described.
 No; however, I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No; however, I will soon hold a current, full and unrestricted license to practice optometry as above described.
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


5a.
Provide the following information regarding your Optometry licensure:
Name on License
Type of License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Initial (or projected) issuance date
Expiration date


6.
Board Certification: Are you Board Certified (or Board Eligible) by The American Board of Certification in Medical Optometry (ABCMO) or The American Board of Optometry (ABO) and meet one of the following two criteria?

(a) Faculty appointment(s) at a school or college of optometry, medicine, or other health care profession; or
(b) Fellowship in the American Academy of Optometry (AAO)

 Yes. I am board certified and currently hold a faculty appointment.
 Yes. I am board certified and completed an AAO Fellowship.
 Yes. I am board eligible and currently hold a faculty appointment.
 Yes. I am board eligible and completed an AAO Fellowship.
 No. I am board certified; however, do not have either a faculty appointment nor have I completed an AAO Fellowship.
 No. I am board eligible; however, do not have either a faculty appointment nor have I completed an AAO Fellowship.
 No. None of the above response options apply to me.


6a.
Provide the following information regarding your active board certification(s), faculty appointment and/or fellowship information; otherwise leave blank or enter, "N/A."
Credential type
Issuing organization
Credential number (if applicable)
Initial issuance (or projected issuance) date
Expiration date (if applicable)
Faculty appointment information (if any)
AAO Fellowship information (if any)


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.

Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.

Some helpful tips:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week
Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Current VA Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

Additional Resources:
Obtaining your Transcripts: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ 
How to Build a Resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 
What to Include in my Federal resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙