Position Title
IT Liaison
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-26-RG-028-13046046 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?  Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work required for this position at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one full academic year of graduate-level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as, Business, Information Technology, Public Administration, or another related field.
 I have a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement as described in the announcement.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience, that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience assisting with administrative or program support functions related to information technology, contracts, audits, cybersecurity, business processes, or similar operational programs. This experience must include all of the following: tracking work activities, deliverables, or action items; gathering and organizing documentation for reviews, reports, or compliance-related activities; coordinating with internal or external stakeholders; AND applying established policies, procedures, or instructions to complete assigned tasks.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above descriptions, and I do not qualify for this position.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work required for this position at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree, or successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree (including LL.B or J.D. if related) in a field directly related to this position.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as coordinating or supporting program, project, contract, compliance, or administrative management activities related to information technology, contracts, audits, cybersecurity, privacy, or business processes. This experience must have included activities such as tracking project schedules, funds, deliverables, or corrective actions; supporting contract surveillance, deliverable review, or compliance monitoring; or coordinating information technology, cybersecurity, or privacy documentation, reviews, and remediation activities, such as Assessment and Authorization (A&A) support, Business Impact Analysis (BIA), Privacy Threshold Assessment (PTA) or Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) reviews, or Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M) tracking.
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at this level. To calculate your percentage of education, divide the number of graduate semester hours earned, in excess of 18 semester hours, by 18. If your education is in quarter hours, convert to semester hours by multiplying the number of quarter hours earned by 2/3rds. To calculate your percentage of experience, divide the number of months of full-time experience by 12. If your experience was part-time, convert to full-time by dividing the number of hours worked per week by 40 then multiply by number of months worked. Add the percentages. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above descriptions, and I do not qualify for this position.


3.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.


 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙