Position Title
ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-12992115-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8
9
10
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Electronics Technician position with the US Army Corps of Engineers. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 level which includes performing routine and standardized tasks under the guidance of senior technicians, assisting in the alignment, calibration, and troubleshooting of electronic and electrical systems, using standard test equipment such as voltmeters, ammeters, and oscilloscopes to perform basic diagnostic tests and record data, assisting with routine preventative maintenance, conducting safety checks, and maintaining accurate documentation for repair services, supporting team members in the testing, repair, and maintenance of electronic components and assisted in preparing sketches and schematics for electronic systems.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate level education in a field directly related to the work of the position, such as Electronics/Electrical Engineering, Electronics/Electrical Technology, or Electronics/Electrical Technician. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level which includes assisting with troubleshooting, repairing, and maintaining a variety of electronic systems and components, handling conventional assignments, applying established electronic principles and techniques to resolve common circuitry problems and carry out preventive maintenance, using a range of test equipment, including spectrum analyzers and oscilloscopes, to perform tests and calibrations, assisting senior technicians in conducting inspections, documenting work accomplishments, and solving complex technical issues, demonstrating the ability to select and apply appropriate problem-solving methods for moderately complex tasks.
 I have successfully completed one and a half years (i.e., 27 semester hours) of graduate level education in a field directly related to the work of the position, such as Electronics/Electrical Engineering, Electronics/Electrical Technology, or Electronics/Electrical Technician.(NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one and a half years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total semester hours minus 18) by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 level which includes being responsible for the maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of complex electronic systems, to include independently diagnose and resolve a range of difficult electronic circuitry problems, performing both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance to ensure system reliability and efficiency, applying and adapting established electronic principles to analyze and test systems, using advanced test equipment to ensure operational specifications are met, and contributing to system modifications, prepared technical reports, and maintained records of work accomplishments, demonstrating the ability to handle a variety of complex technical assignments with minimal supervision.
 I have two full years of graduate level education or a master's degree in a field of study directly related to the work of the position such as Electronics/Electrical Engineering, Electronics/Electrical Technology, or Electronics/Electrical Technician.(NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than one year but less than the required education in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 54. Add the two percentages.) The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level which includes resolving a wide range of complex and non-routine issues with minimal supervision, independently diagnosis, repair, modify, and evaluate interconnected electronic systems, adapting techniques and improvising solutions to address unique operating conditions or component failure, also includes conducting comprehensive performance and acceptance tests on new and existing equipment, analyzing the impact of system changes, and preparing detailed technical reports and documentation to ensure optimal system performance and reliability.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 level serving as a senior Electronics Technician with full responsibility for a wide range of complex electronic systems, independently calibrating, fabricating, modifying, and troubleshooting integrated systems, diagnose and resolve highly complex and critical electronic issues, often improvising or designing new techniques and circuitry when standard procedures were inadequate, to include serving as a technical authority, determining methods for repairs, analyzing the impact of modifications on interrelated systems, conducting comprehensive inspections and performance tests, and ensuring all maintenance, safety, and calibration documentation was properly maintained and certified.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙