Position Title
SUPV HR SPEC (MILITARY) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12955738-AR-26-041A Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.

I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 Yes
 No


4.
If selected, are you willing to accept this indefinite position, and understand that the position may be terminated upon receipt of a 30 day notice (due to return of original employee hired to backfill/funding/workload).
 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?
 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (JFHQ - G1 MED) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (JFHQ - G1 MED) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E7 - E9), Warrant Officer (CW1-CW5), or Officer (O1 - O5)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-11/12 Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Military).
 I HAVE experience, education or training 1) which involves the exercise of analytical ability, judgment, discretion, and personal responsibility, and application of a substantial body of knowledge of principles, concepts and practices applicable to one or more fields of administration or management and 2) using computer and automation systems.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201-11/12 or higher Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Military).
 I HAVE at least one year of specialist experiences at the GS-09 level or the equivalent; 1) in executing personnel programs and Human Resources Information Systems, as applicable to the specific position and its position description; 2) must have knowledge and understanding of the personnel and manpower core competencies: Organization Structure; Requirements Determination; Program Allocation and Control; and, Performance Improvement; 3) have a working knowledge of organizational structures; manpower standards; manpower resources; manpower data systems; or, commercial services to include strategic sourcing; 4) experienced in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers; and, experienced in completing accession planning and processing; classification and position management; and, civilian promotions; 5) experienced in advertising positions, processing assignments or reassignment actions; reviewing human resources development programs; applying education and training policy requirements; discussing retraining procedures; and/or providing retirement options; 6) competent in discussing the equal opportunity and sexual assault prevention and response programs; 7) have experiences in career counseling; completing or editing performance evaluations; and, conducting educational and skill development personnel course programs; 8) competent in merit principles, personnel plans, programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities; 9) skilled in applying program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals; 10) knowledgeable on allocating manpower resource budgets or execution procedures; 11) experienced in performance management and productivity programs; or, advising on process improvement, best practices, and performance techniques.
 I HAVE at least one year of specialist experiences at the GS-11 level or the equivalent, 1) in personnel and manpower core competencies: Organization Structure, Requirement Determination, Program Allocation and Control, and/or Performance Improvement. In addition to analytical and problem-solving abilities, positions at this level require specialized knowledge of all applicable merit principles and practices related to federal civilian, military, and National Guard technician personnel programs, 2) in planning for and executing all personnel programs and Human Resources Information Systems, 3) in managing Army National Guard organizational structures; organizational and manpower standards; manpower resources; military grades; manpower data systems; peacetime and wartime manpower requirements and utilization; and, commercial services to include, strategic sourcing, 4) in operational readiness planning, personnel deployments, and writing various readiness status reports, 5) in writing, designing, formatting, publishing, or presenting military or civilian briefings for senior leadership, conferences, workshops, or special committee reporting, 6) in performing total-force personnel program requirements to accomplish labor union negotiations and agreements; skilled in completing accession planning and processing; classification and position management; civilian and military promotions; analyzing human resources personnel systems reports; skilled in directing position utilization; awards and recognition; evaluations, and performance management, 7) in managing or conducting reenlistments; assignment or reassignment actions; education and training policy requirements; retraining procedures; retirement options; conducting disciplinary actions; or applying force development and force shaping programs, 8) in managing human resources development programs; education; voluntary education; advanced academic education; or promotion testing and libraries, 9) on mentorship activities and knowledgeable of the equal opportunity and sexual assault prevention and response program. 10) skilled and experienced in assessing program status; and, advising senior leaders or commanders, at all levels, on the labor relations environment, 11) in career counseling, performance evaluations, conducting educational and skill development personnel course programs, and, experienced in identifying concerns; assessing culture and environmental concerns; and, executing problem solving techniques and applications, 12) in formulating personnel plans and programs; developing and implementing policies; and, executing procedures with follow-on evaluations and reassessments, 13) in total force adaptive planning and execution in support of combatant commanders from peacetime through mobilization, contingency operations and demobilization, 14) skilled in interpreting manpower, personnel, and equipment availability deployment readiness posturing and management, 15) in developing, controlling, programming and allocating manpower resources in support of the Army National Guard planning, programming, budgeting, and execution procedures, 16) in the allocation of military and civilian resources through execution and management of the applicable manpower documents and higher headquarters' manpower directives and requirements, 17) competent in processing organization change actions to activate, inactivate, re-designate, or reorganize unit structures, 18) in conducting performance management and productivity programs; assessing and documenting organizational performance; or, advising on process improvement options, best practices, and how to recognize optimal performance, and 19) skilled in maintaining sound appropriated and non-appropriate funds; and, financial/corporate standards with established internal controls.
 I DO NOT have the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙