Position Title
Financial Administrative Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-12983472-26-REP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.



INSTRUCTIONS: Time-in-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-5 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-7 grade level of this position and GS-7 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-9 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation.
Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.



1.
To qualify at the GS-7 grade, you must have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-5 level or higher in Federal Service.
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-5 level or higher in Federal Service.
 No, I do not have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-5 level or higher in Federal Service.


2.
To qualify at the GS-9 grade, you must have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 level or higher in Federal Service.
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 level or higher in Federal Service.
 No, I do not have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 level or higher in Federal Service.


INSTRUCTIONS: This section includes questions about the specialized experience and/or education for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the specialized experience for a Financial Administrative Specialist, GS-0501 7T9. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Read all responses before making your selection.


3.
For the GS-7. Do you possess one-year specialized experience to at least the GS-5 level? Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Basic analytical, technical and customer service skills and ability to make recommendations based on research;
Procuring supplies, equipment or services for an organization in accordance with regulations governing the type of purchase;
Assisting with budget development and execution;
Providing organizational support services for an organization such as timekeeping, preparing travel vouchers, documents or correspondence and responding to procedural questions from staff or the public.
 Yes, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-5 level.
 Yes, possess the combination of experience and education needed as described in the announcement which totals at least one year.
 Yes, I have a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) for the experience required for the GS-07 level. -OR- I have one (1) full year of graduate education for the experience required for the GS-07 level.
 No, I do not possess the experience nor education.


4.
For the GS-9. Do you possess one-year specialized experience to at least the GS-7 level? Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Compiling or analyzing a federal organization's budgetary or financial data to ensure accuracy and identify problems under the pressure of quickly changing priorities and time constraints;
Auditing and certifying federal reimbursement vouchers resulting in payment to claimants or other businesses or agencies;
Interpreting and applying laws or regulations related to federal financial analyses and organizational improvement initiatives;
Providing senior level technical advice to federal employees and management on the principles, practices, and laws pertaining to finance programs and operations.
 Yes, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-7 level.
 Yes, possess the combination of experience and education needed as described in the announcement which totals at least one year.
 Yes, I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university; or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or possession of a related LL.B. or J.D degree
 No, I do not possess the experience nor education.


INSTRUCTIONS: The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.



5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙