Position Title
AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12854078-AF-25-4575 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 30, 2025 to Jan 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question/(s):



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience or training that has provided the ability to perform assembly and disassembly operations and make prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories in accordance with technical specifications, procedures, and requirements. Experience using hand and power tools common to the trade.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Experience or training performing standard, routine assembly and disassembly operations and making prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories. Experience or training performing maintenance overhaul, troubleshooting, testing, and repair of aircraft engines, engine components, and powertrains for fixed and/or rotary wing aircraft. Experience determining maintenance needed from work orders, inspection reports, historical records, and diagnosis.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?

 Yes
 No


3.
To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-3 through E-5.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙