Position Title
INTERDISCIPLINARY
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQKF-26-13006846-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 1301 - General Physical Science
 B. 1320 - Chemistry


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary (Chemist/Physical Scientist) position with Department of Defense. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Chemist at the GS-09, GS-11 and GS-12  grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in the physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering which includes 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes course work equivalent to a major in the physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physical Scientist at the GS-09, GS-11 and GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics which included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.) and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to one of the majors, as shown in A above, that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary (Chemist/Physical Scientist) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1.) conducting chemical analyses on environmental and/or occupational health samples using established laboratory procedures; 2.) documenting laboratory data by following established testing plans; AND 3.) performing equipment maintenance to support ongoing testing.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as chemistry or physics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Interdisciplinary (Chemist/Physical Scientist) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1.)performing chemical analyses on environmental and/or occupational health samples using established laboratory procedures; 2.) modifying laboratory processes to improve data quality and/or increase efficiency; AND 3.) troubleshooting laboratory instruments to ensure operational readiness.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as chemistry or physics.(Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary (Chemist/ Physical Scientist) at the GS-12 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1.)Conducting chemical analyses on environmental and/or occupational health samples using laboratory instrumentation to identify toxic constituents; 2.)Evaluating data quality to recommend corrective actions; AND 3.) Developing analytical testing methods to meet mission needs.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙