Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-12929431-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 0460 - Forestry
 C. 0470 - Soil Science
 D. 0480 - Fish And Wildlife Administration
 E. 0486 - Wildlife Biology


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Natural Resources Specialist at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Forester at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in forestry; or a related subject-matter field that included a total of at least 30 semester hours in any combination of biological, physical, or mathematical sciences or engineering, of which at least 24 semester hours of course work were in forestry. My curriculum was sufficiently diversified and included courses in each of the following areas: (1) Management of Renewable Resources -- study of the science and art of managing renewable resources to attain desired results; (2) Forest Biology -- study of the classification, distribution, characteristics, and identification of forest vegetation, and the interrelationships of living organisms to the forest environment; and (3) Forest Resource Measurements and Inventory -- sampling, inventory, measurement, and analysis techniques as applied to a variety of forest resources. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in forestry, or at least 30 semester hours in any combination of biological, physical, or mathematical sciences or engineering, of which at least 24 semester hours were in forestry. My curriculum was sufficiently diversified and included courses in each of the areas described in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Soil Scientist at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in soil science or a closely related discipline that included 30 semester hours or equivalent in biological, physical, or earth science, with a minimum of 15 semester hours in such subjects as soil genesis, pedology, soil chemistry, soil physics, and soil fertility. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in soil science or a related discipline that included at least 30 semester hours in the biological, physical, or earth sciences, with a minimum of 15 semester hours in such subjects as soil genesis, pedology, soil chemistry, soil physics, and soil fertility, PLUS appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Fish and Wildlife Specialist at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a biological science, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, or at least 30 semester hours in courses, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have four years of experience that demonstrates that I have acquired knowledge and understanding of one or more of the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, or related disciplines equivalent to that which would have been acquired through completion of a 4-year course of study as described in A above.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Wildlife Biologist (Mgmt) at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological science that included at least 9 semester hours in such wildlife subjects as mammalogy, ornithology, animal ecology, wildlife management, or research courses in the field of wildlife biology; AND at least 12 semester hours in zoology in such subjects as general zoology, invertebrate zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, genetics, ecology, cellular biology, parasitology, entomology, or research courses in such subjects (excess courses in wildlife biology may be used to meet the zoology requirements where appropriate.); AND at least 9 semester hours in botany or the related plant sciences. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), with at least 9 semester hours in wildlife subjects, 12 semester hours in zoology, and 9 semester hours in botany or related plant science, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Interdisciplinary at the NH-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes managing a natural resources and/or facility maintenance program day to day operations; enforcing applicable laws and regulations governing the use of natural resources; and supervising employees assigned to a lake and/or power plant.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


7.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2

INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.

There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You discover that a popular group camping area has several violations including unauthorized structures, improper waste disposal, and vehicles parked in restricted zones. Local law enforcement is unavailable, and the weekend camping season is at peak capacity with over 500 visitors on-site. The violations pose environmental and safety risks, but immediate enforcement could create significant visitor dissatisfaction and potential confrontations. How do you proceed?

 Close the entire camping area immediately to address all violations simultaneously, redirecting all visitors to alternative facilities regardless of availability or capacity constraints.
 Document all violations with photos and GPS coordinates, immediately post violation notices with 24-hour compliance deadlines, deploy available staff to monitor compliance, and coordinate with law enforcement for follow-up enforcement actions while maintaining visitor safety protocols.
 Focus enforcement efforts on the most serious safety violations first, document all infractions for future reference, and implement temporary signage to prevent additional violations while developing a comprehensive enforcement strategy.
 Issue written warnings to violators with specific correction requirements, establish increased patrol schedules for the weekend, and schedule formal enforcement actions for the following week when additional law enforcement support is available.
 Delay enforcement actions until after the peak weekend to avoid visitor conflicts, but increase educational outreach and verbal warnings to encourage voluntary compliance with regulations.


2.
Two of your experienced seasonal rangers are in a heated disagreement about work assignments for the upcoming holiday weekend. One ranger believes the current rotation system is unfair and wants to switch assignments, while the other insists on maintaining the established schedule. The disagreement is affecting team morale, and you need all staff focused on managing the expected 3,000+ visitors. How do you handle this situation?

 Assign both rangers to work together on the same shift to resolve their differences through collaboration, while monitoring their performance closely throughout the weekend.
 Suspend both rangers from weekend duties to eliminate the conflict, and redistribute their responsibilities among remaining staff members regardless of their current workload.
 Meet individually with each ranger to understand their concerns, review the assignment criteria and rotation system for fairness, facilitate a joint discussion to reach a mutually acceptable solution, and establish clear expectations for professional conduct moving forward.
 Maintain the current schedule to ensure consistency and fairness, counsel both rangers about professional behavior expectations, and schedule a post-holiday review of the rotation system to address any legitimate concerns.
 Convene an immediate team meeting to address the scheduling conflict openly, review the established rotation policy with all staff, and make any necessary adjustments while reinforcing the importance of teamwork during peak periods.


3.
During routine surveillance, your rangers report multiple concerning activities across the 40,000-acre project: unauthorized camping in a sensitive wetland area, potential illegal dumping near the shoreline, suspicious activity around the endangered species habitat, and reports of poaching in the remote northern section. With limited surveillance resources and vast terrain to cover, how do you direct surveillance efforts?

 Focus surveillance resources on areas with confirmed violations first, document all reported activities for follow-up investigation, and request additional support from district office for comprehensive area coverage.
 Assign rangers to investigate each reported activity based on severity and accessibility, coordinate with appropriate law enforcement agencies for suspected illegal activities, and establish increased patrol frequency in areas with multiple violations.
 Divide available rangers equally among all reported areas to ensure simultaneous response, regardless of the severity or type of violation, and document findings for future enforcement actions.
 Prioritize surveillance based on environmental sensitivity and legal violations, deploy rangers to the most critical areas first, coordinate with law enforcement for potential criminal activities, establish systematic patrol schedules for comprehensive coverage, and implement temporary monitoring technology where appropriate.
 Concentrate all surveillance efforts on the most accessible violation site to ensure thorough investigation, postponing response to other areas until the first investigation is completely resolved.


4.
The main access road has developed significant potholes affecting visitor safety, the primary sewage treatment system is showing signs of malfunction during peak season, and two patrol boats need engine repairs before the busy weekend. Your maintenance budget is nearly exhausted, and you must prioritize repairs while ensuring continued operations. How do you provide maintenance guidance?

 Assess each maintenance issue for safety implications and operational impact, prioritize sewage system repairs for environmental compliance, implement temporary road safety measures while scheduling permanent repairs, and coordinate boat maintenance to ensure minimum patrol coverage during peak periods.
 Focus available funds on the most critical safety issues first, implement temporary solutions for lower-priority items, and develop a comprehensive maintenance plan for budget submission in the next fiscal year.
 Defer all maintenance activities until the next budget cycle to preserve remaining funds, implementing temporary closures of affected areas as necessary to manage safety risks.
 Distribute remaining maintenance funds equally among all three issues to make partial progress on each, accepting reduced functionality until additional funding becomes available.
 Prioritize maintenance based on public health and safety requirements, address sewage system issues immediately, schedule road repairs using available materials, and arrange for temporary boat rental or mutual aid for patrol coverage.


5.
A local municipality is proposing a new marina development that could impact water quality and wildlife habitat at your project. The mayor and city council are requesting your technical input, but they seem focused primarily on economic benefits. Environmental groups are also seeking your professional opinion, and your district office wants a comprehensive assessment. How do you provide technical advice in this situation?

 Conduct thorough technical assessments of the proposed development's environmental impacts, provide written recommendations with supporting data to all requesting parties, and offer to participate in stakeholder meetings to discuss findings and potential solutions.
 Focus technical advice primarily on regulatory compliance requirements and permit conditions, providing basic environmental impact information while emphasizing the municipality's responsibility for detailed environmental assessments.
 Provide general support for the economic development project while minimizing discussion of potential environmental impacts, assuming that standard permit processes will address any technical concerns.
 Prepare a comprehensive technical analysis addressing water quality impacts, wildlife habitat effects, and cumulative environmental impacts, present objective findings to all stakeholders with clear recommendations, and facilitate discussions between parties to identify potential mitigation measures and alternative approaches.
 Develop a detailed technical report outlining potential environmental concerns and mitigation requirements, present findings to the municipality with specific recommendations, and provide copies to environmental groups and district management.


6.
You're interviewing candidates for a critical park ranger position that requires both technical natural resource knowledge and strong public interaction skills. One candidate has excellent technical qualifications but limited public contact experience, another has strong interpersonal skills but weaker technical background, and a third has moderate qualifications in both areas. How do you approach the selection recommendation?

 Select the candidate with the strongest interpersonal skills regardless of technical qualifications, assuming that technical knowledge can be easily acquired through on-the-job training.
 Interview all candidates using consistent questions focused on position requirements, evaluate their responses against established criteria, and recommend the candidate whose qualifications most closely match the position's primary responsibilities.
 Assess candidates using standardized evaluation criteria for both technical and interpersonal competencies, conduct practical exercises or scenarios to evaluate real-world application of skills, and recommend the candidate with the strongest combination of required qualifications.
 Focus the interview primarily on technical qualifications since interpersonal skills can be developed through training, and recommend the candidate with the strongest natural resource background.
 Evaluate each candidate against all position requirements using structured interview questions and assessment criteria, consider the position's specific duties and training opportunities available, document your assessment rationale thoroughly, and recommend the candidate who best meets the overall position needs with consideration for development potential.


7.
Local fisherman are strongly opposing your proposal to restrict motorboat access to a sensitive cove area to protect nesting waterfowl. They argue it will hurt the local fishing business and violate their traditional use rights. Environmental groups support the restriction, and your management plan requires habitat protection. A heated public meeting is scheduled for next week. How do you prepare to discuss this controversial matter?

 Compile environmental impact data and regulatory justifications for the proposed restrictions, prepare responses to anticipated objections, and plan to present the management rationale clearly while listening to stakeholder feedback.
 Prepare comprehensive factual information about the environmental concerns and regulatory requirements, develop alternative solutions that address both conservation needs and stakeholder concerns, plan to facilitate respectful dialogue between opposing viewpoints, and establish clear communication protocols for the meeting.
 Focus preparation on explaining the legal requirements for habitat protection and the non-negotiable nature of environmental regulations, while acknowledging stakeholder concerns about economic impacts.
 Prepare to defend the restriction as final and necessary, emphasizing regulatory compliance over stakeholder concerns, and plan to limit discussion time to avoid prolonged controversy.
 Gather scientific data supporting the habitat protection need, research legal authorities for the proposed restrictions, prepare alternative management options for consideration, and develop a structured presentation that addresses stakeholder concerns while explaining management obligations.


8.
Your current organizational structure has maintenance staff reporting to different supervisors across multiple programs, leading to inefficient resource allocation, duplicated efforts, and communication gaps. Staff morale is declining, and project objectives are not being met efficiently. You need to recommend organizational changes to your Operations Manager. How do you approach this recommendation?

 Identify the most obvious organizational problems and propose a simple restructuring solution that consolidates maintenance functions, focusing primarily on immediate efficiency improvements.
 Analyze current organizational challenges and inefficiencies, survey staff for input on structural improvements, develop alternative organizational models for consideration, and prepare a detailed recommendation with implementation considerations and expected outcomes.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of current organizational effectiveness including staff input and workload assessment, research best practices for similar operations, develop specific restructuring proposals with implementation timelines and resource requirements, and present recommendations with supporting data and anticipated benefits.
 Document specific problems with the current structure and their impact on operations, research organizational alternatives used by similar facilities, and prepare a recommendation that addresses the identified inefficiencies.
 Recommend immediate reorganization based on your observations without conducting formal analysis or seeking staff input, assuming that any change will improve the current situation.


9.
You need to prepare technical specifications for a major campground rehabilitation contract involving road repairs, utility upgrades, and facility improvements. The work must be completed during the off-season window, requires coordination with multiple utilities, and must meet accessibility standards. Contractors need detailed specifications to provide accurate bids. How do you prepare the technical plans and specifications?

 Perform thorough site evaluations and utility coordination assessments, develop detailed specifications that meet current codes and accessibility requirements, establish clear performance standards and completion timelines, and include quality control and inspection requirements.
 Prepare general specifications based on similar previous projects, include basic performance requirements and timeline expectations, and rely on contractor expertise to address detailed technical requirements.
 Assess the rehabilitation needs and develop technical specifications based on standard practices and regulatory requirements, include coordination requirements with utilities, and establish basic quality and timeline expectations for contractors.
 Develop minimal specifications focusing primarily on cost considerations, assuming that experienced contractors will know appropriate standards and requirements without detailed technical guidance.
 Conduct comprehensive site assessments to identify all work requirements, research current standards and regulations for each component, develop detailed technical specifications with performance criteria and quality standards, include coordination requirements and timeline constraints, and establish inspection and acceptance procedures.


10.
You're preparing the annual budget for lake facilities with competing demands: aging infrastructure requiring major repairs, increased visitor services needs, environmental compliance requirements, and pressure to reduce operational costs. Historical data shows budget constraints while visitor numbers and maintenance needs continue growing. How do you approach the annual budget preparation?

 Examine previous budget allocations and spending patterns, identify essential maintenance and operational requirements, assess visitor service needs, and prepare a budget that balances operational needs with available funding.
 Prepare a budget that maintains all current programs and services at existing levels, assuming that funding will be available to meet all identified needs without prioritization or cost-benefit analysis.
 Base the budget primarily on previous year's allocations with adjustments for known cost increases, focusing on maintaining current service levels while identifying areas for potential cost reductions.
 Review past budget performance and current operational needs, conduct facility condition assessments to identify critical maintenance requirements, evaluate visitor service needs and potential revenue sources, and develop a prioritized budget with justifications for major expenditures.
 Analyze historical expenditure trends and operational data, assess infrastructure condition and replacement needs, evaluate visitor service demands and revenue potential, prioritize expenditures based on safety and regulatory requirements, develop cost-benefit analyses for major investments, and prepare budget justifications with alternative funding scenarios.


11.
You're managing multiple active contracts including a $200,000 marina shoreline revetment project, routine maintenance services, and emergency repair contracts. The marina contractor is requesting a time extension due to weather delays, the maintenance contractor has submitted questionable invoices, and an emergency repair is needed that exceeds your contracting authority. How do you administer these contract situations?

 Deny the marina extension request to maintain the original schedule, pay all maintenance invoices to avoid contractor disputes, and authorize the emergency repair independently to address the urgent need.
 Review the marina contract terms for weather delay provisions and document actual weather impacts, audit the maintenance contractor's invoices against contract specifications and request supporting documentation, coordinate with the contracting officer for the emergency repair authorization, and maintain detailed records of all contract modifications and decisions.
 Evaluate the marina contractor's extension request against contract terms and weather records, investigate the maintenance contractor's billing discrepancies and require corrections, and follow proper procedures to obtain authorization for the emergency repair contract modification.
 Approve the marina time extension to maintain good contractor relations, accept the maintenance invoices pending future clarification, and proceed with the emergency repair while seeking retroactive approval.
 Assess the validity of the marina contractor's weather delay claim and negotiate appropriate time adjustments, address the maintenance contractor's invoice issues through direct discussion and documentation requirements, and seek higher authority approval for the emergency repair.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙