Position Title
ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS MECHANIC
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-13042989-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Which option best describes your ability to troubleshoot, repair, and modify complex electronic control systems such as programmable coin presses, multi axis CNC equipment, automated packaging systems, integrated hydraulic/pneumatic/electronic systems, and working with various voltages ranging from 24V DC to 480v AC?
 I am fully proficient in troubleshooting, modifying, rebuilding, installing, and aligning highly complex, interrelated production systems, and adapting test procedures or techniques as needed.
 I can independently diagnose and repair complex electronic, hydraulic, and pneumatic integrated systems using advanced test equipment.
 I can independently troubleshoot standard issues and perform routine repairs on moderately complex systems.
 I have limited experience performing basic checks or minor repairs under guidance.
 I have no experience with electronic control systems of this type.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


3.
Please select the following that you are able to use effectively to troubleshoot and diagnose problems:
 I have experience using blueprints, pneumatic schematics, electronic schematics, and hydraulic schematics.
 I have experience using pneumatic schematics, electronic schematics, and hydraulic schematics.
 I have experience using pneumatic schematics, and hydraulic schematics.
 I have experience using blueprints.
 None of the above.


4.
Please select the electronic equipment and/or electrical systems you have experience repairing, troubleshooting/analyzing, modifying, calibrating, aligning, programming, and/or installing:
 Performing operational checks/adjustments and system alignments according to manufacturer's specifications to ensure proper sequencing of mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems with electronic controls.
 Security and fire systems.
 Programmable computers.
 Controls for production equipment (HMI and/or PLC).
 None of the above.


5.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


6.
Please choose the duties you have experienced in the overhaul, rebuilding, maintenance and/or testing of:
 I have experience with multiple axis numerically controlled machine tools (machining centers), programmable logic controlled (PLC) production equipment, facility monitoring systems (FMS), electronic weighing systems, and automated packing systems.
 I have experience with programmable logic controlled production equipment, facility monitoring systems, electronic weighing systems, and automated packing systems
 I have experience with electronic weighing systems, and automated packing systems.
 I have experience with automated packaging systems.
 None of the above.


7.
Select the following duties you have experience with.
 I have experience repairing electronic sensing systems, repairing relays, repairing selectors, and repairing automatic control circuits.
 I have experience repairing relays, repairing selectors, and repairing automatic control circuits.
 I have experience repairing relays, repairing selectors, and repairing automatic control circuits.
 I have experience repairing automatic control circuits.
 None of the above.


8.
Please choose from the following work you have performed in production and manufacturing environments:
 Evaluate electrical components and programmable logic interrelationships, interactions, and interconnections of assemblies and systems.
 Trouble analyzes, rebuild, and overhaul electrical systems and components, modifying techniques and procedures to production needs.
 Create and recommend modifications based on (OEM) engineering design and operating criteria.
 Judge impact of repairs on related integral devices of equipment and its relation to the production system as a whole and work with other skilled trades to create, recommend and implement solutions.
 None of the above.


9.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


10.
Please choose the areas you have experience in while performing in your position
 I have experience with installation standards and practices for electrical systems, integrated automation systems, industrial installation practice and standards, and programmable logic controls interface and functionality.
 I have experience with integrated automation systems, industrial installation practice and standards, and programmable logic controls interface and functionality.
 I have experience with industrial installation practice and standards, and programmable logic controls interface and functionality.
 I have experience with programmable logic controls interface and functionality.
 None of these.


11.
Please select each statement that applies to your experience with the alignment, calibration and integration of operable systems composed of a number of individual subsystems.
 I have performed work to integrate, align and calibrate PLC and computer subsystems within a complete integrated system.
 I have performed work to integrate, align and calibrate pneumatic subsystems within a complete integrated system.
 I have performed work to integrate, align and calibrate hydraulic subsystems within a complete integrated system.
 None of the above.


12.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume for each statement selected in the above question. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


13.
Please choose the test equipment with which you have experience or training.
 I have experience using an oscilloscope, multi-meter, voltmeter, power meter, toners, and meggers.
 I have experience using a multi-meter, voltmeter, a power meter.
 I have experience using a power meter.
 I have experience using voltmeters.
 None of the above.


14.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


15.
Please select each statement below that applies in regard to interpreting drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete integrated electronic/mechanical systems.
 I have interpreted drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete integrated systems to recognize the functions and interconnections of subsystems.
 I have interpreted drawings, specifications, and schematics to trace the effect of a change in one subsystem to other integrated subsystems and determine which controls and devices must be changed or adjusted to compensate.
 I have interpreted drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete integrated systems to troubleshoot faults and malfunctions and determine the corrective measures needed.
 None of the above.


16.
What is your experience with the following: Word Processing Software, RS Logix 5000, PLC5/SLC 500, and Commercial Off-the-Shelf Systems or Equipment Control Systems?
 I have extensive experience and am proficient with all of the listed software and systems.
 I have experience with several of the listed software and systems.
 I have experience with only one of the listed software or systems.
 I have no experience with any of the listed software or systems


17.
Please choose the type of hand tools with which you have experience:
 I have experience with soldering stations, insulated hand tools, electrician scissors or cable wire strippers, and terminal crimpers.
 I have experience with insulated hand tools, electrician scissors or cable wire strippers, and terminal crimpers.
 I have experience with electrician scissors or cable wire strippers, and terminal crimpers.
 I have experience with terminal crimpers.
 None of the above.


18.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


19.
Do you have experience coordinating with manufacturers or industry personnel on the maintenance and repair of electronic equipment?
 Yes
 No


20.
Please select the one option that best describes your ability to interpret instructions and specifications in a production environment.
 I have interpreted instructions and specifications in a production environment. I have given technical directions to others in the interpretation and specification of instructions on a routine basis. I have used independent judgment in modifying instructions as needed to improve or streamline operations.
 I have interpreted instructions and specifications in a production environment and performed routine and diverse tasks without additional guidance. I have performed assigned tasks and operations independently or with minimal supervision.
 I have interpreted instructions and specifications in a production environment to perform routine jobs under close supervision, and I have, at times, required assistance for more difficult operations.
 None of the above.


21.
Select each item listed below which applies to your experience and training:
 I have experience putting new ideas into practice when fully explained, learning new techniques, contributing ideas for getting a task done, and suggesting modifications in shop equipment and procedures to solve problems.
 I have experience learning new techniques, contributing ideas for getting a task done, and suggesting modifications in shop equipment and procedures to solve problems.
 I have experience contributing ideas for getting a task done and suggesting modifications to shop equipment and procedures to solve problems.
 I have experience contributing ideas for getting a task done.
 None of the above.


22.
Please select each statement below that applies to your experience in setting up and operating software controlled automated test equipment in various test modes to troubleshoot integrated systems.
 I have set up and operated software controlled automated test equipment to run established programs in various test modes to test and troubleshoot integrated systems and sub systems.
 I have set up and operated software controlled automated test equipment to test and evaluate newly acquired/modified production equipment for proper operation and perform final functional and operational systems tests after repairs and/or modifications.
 I have used software-controlled test equipment to trace effects of a change in a subsystem to other subsystems and determine which controls and devices needed to be changed to compensate.
 None of the above.


23.
Please indicate how you obtained your training on safety practices and procedures:
 I obtained my training on safety practices and procedures from classroom & on-the-job training.
 I obtained my training in safety practices and procedures from on-the job-training.
 I obtained my training on safety practices and procedures from classroom training
 I have had no training, but I am willing to learn.


24.
"Lockout/Tagout (LOTO)" refers to specific practices and procedures to safeguard employees from the unexpected energization, startup of machinery, equipment, or the release of hazardous energy during service or maintenance activities. Please indicate your level of knowledge and experience with LOTO practices and procedures.
 I have established a LOTO program, including a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the use and compliance of the program with personal working experience complying with LOTO.
 I have been trained and have experience in the appropriate application of LOTO policies and procedures.
 I have been trained in the appropriate use of LOTO procedures with no hands-on experience.
 I have no experience as described.


25.
With today's continuous advancement in technology, this position requires a strong willingness and ability to learn new systems (e.g. robotics, vision) with limited or no advanced training. Please indicate your level of education and your demonstrated ability to learn new systems.
 I have achieved a degree (bachelors or associates) in electronics or electronic engineering technologies. I have demonstrated my ability by learning new systems on my own with little to no direct training or supervision.
 I have certification in electronics or electronic engineering technology from either a trade school or while in the military service. I have demonstrated my ability by learning new systems with direct formal training and/or On-The-Job training.
 I have experience working on systems and learning electronics or electronic engineering technology through an On-The-Job training or apprenticeship program.
 I have no formal training in electronics, electronic engineering technology or associated systems.


26.
Which of the following best describes your experience?
 I have experience troubleshooting, repairing, modifying, and installing all of the following: motor controls, variable frequency drives, fire alarm systems, facility monitoring systems and working with the National Electrical Code (NEC).
 I have experience with some of the following systems: motor controls, variable frequency drives, fire alarm systems, and NEC requirements.
 I have limited experience and have only worked with one of the following: motor controls, variable frequency drives, fire alarm systems, or NEC compliance.
 I do not have experience troubleshooting, modifying, or installing motor controls, variable frequency drives, fire alarm systems, or applying the NEC.(
 None of the above.


27.
Which of the following best describes your experience?
 I have experience troubleshooting electronic circuits and electrical controls, 4–20 mA and millivolt signals, programmable logic circuits, and proximity switches.
 I have experience with two or three of the following: electronic circuits and electrical controls, 4–20 mA and millivolt signals, programmable logic circuits, or proximity switches.
 I have experience with only one of the following: electronic circuits and electrical controls, 4–20 mA and millivolt signals, programmable logic circuits, or proximity switches.
 I do not have experience with any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙