Position Title
Airplane Pilot/Helicopter Pilot
Agency
Department of the Air Force - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
AFPDHA-12613963-2181-ART Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Gunter AFB, AL
 AB. Maxwell AFB, AL
 AT. Elmendorf AFB, AK
 AU. Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 AV. Luke AFB, AZ
 AW. Tucson, AZ
 AX. Little Rock AFB, AR
 AY. Beale AFB, CA
 AZ. Edwards AFB, CA
 BA. March AFB, CA
 BB. Monterey County, CA
 BC. Travis AFB, CA
 BD. Vandenberg AFB, CA
 BE. Air Force Academy, CO
 BF. Buckley AFB, CO
 BG. Peterson AFB, CO
 BH. Schriever AFB, CO
 BI. Dover AFB, DE
 BJ. Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
 BK. Eglin AFB, FL
 BL. Homestead AFB, FL
 BM. Hurlburt Field, FL
 BN. MacDill AFB, FL
 BO. Miami, FL
 BP. Patrick AFB, FL
 BQ. Tyndall AFB, FL
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Dobbins AFB, GA
 D. Moody AFB, GA
 E. Robins AFB, GA
 F. Andersen Air Base, GU
 G. Hickam AFB, HI
 H. Scott AFB, IL
 I. Grissom AFB, IN
 J. McConnell AFB, KS
 K. Barksdale AFB, LA
 L. Andrews AFB, MD
 M. Westover Air Reserve Base, MA
 N. Minneapolis, MN
 O. Columbus AFB, MS
 P. Keesler AFB, MS
 Q. Whiteman AFB, MO
 R. Offutt AFB, NE
 S. Creech AFB, NV
 T. Nellis AFB, NV
 U. McGuire AFB, NJ
 V. Holloman AFB, NM
 W. Niagara Falls, NY
 X. Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
 Y. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 Z. Youngstown, OH
 AA. Altus AFB, OK
 AC. Fort Sill, OK
 AD. Oklahoma City, OK
 AE. Tinker AFB, OK
 AF. Vance AFB, OK
 AG. Portland, OR
 AH. Pittsburgh, PA
 AI. Charleston AFB, SC
 AJ. Shaw AFB, SC
 AK. Dyess AFB, TX
 AL. Fort Worth, TX
 AM. Lackland AFB, TX
 AN. Randolph AFB, TX
 AO. Sheppard AFB, TX
 AP. Hill AFB, UT
 AQ. Langley AFB, VA
 AR. Pentagon, Arlington, VA
 AS. McChord AFB, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


3.
I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.


4.
I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 Yes
 No


6.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Condition of Employment
1.
This is an Air Reserve Technician (ART) position; individuals selected for an ART position must meet and maintain ART requirements. Applicants for ART positions must currently be a member of the Air Force Reserve or willing and eligible to join the Air Force Reserves.

I am a current member of the Air Force Reserves-OR-I am willing and able to join the Air Force Reserves and accept an ART position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for an Airplane Pilot/Helicopter Pilot. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form or Flying History Report and failure to submit this form or report will result in an ineligible rating. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the level of experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Airplane or Helicopter Pilot for the GS-2181-12 level. NOTE: YOUR RESUME AND/OR SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a current United States Air Force Pilot rating, hold a valid aviation service aeronautical order and have completed a minimum of 750 total military flight time (accumulation of Primary, Secondary, Instructor, Evaluator, Stimulator, Student and other US Military and Foreign Military Time) in mission design series of organization of position being filled. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form, Flying History Report or any official document what shows your most recent flight (last date actively flown), total flight hours and type of aircraft flown.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for an Airplane Pilot or Helicopter Pilot. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form or Flying History Report and failure to submit this form or report will result in an ineligible rating. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the level of experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Airplane Pilot or Helicopter Pilot for the GS-2181-13 level. NOTE: YOUR RESUME AND/OR SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a current United States Air Force Pilot rating, hold a valid aviation service aeronautical order and have completed a minimum of 1,000 total military flight time (accumulation of Primary, Secondary, Instructor, Evaluator, Stimulator, Student and other US Military and Foreign Military Time) in mission design series of organization of position being filled. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form, Flying History Report or any official document what shows your most recent flight (last date actively flown), total flight hours and type of aircraft flown.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Supervisory Airplane Flight Instructor. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form or Flying History Report and failure to submit this form or report will result in an ineligible rating. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes your level of experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Airplane Flight Instructor, GS-2181-13 grade level. NOTE: YOUR RESUME AND/OR SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a current United States Air Force Pilot rating, hold a valid aviation service aeronautical order and have completed a minimum of 1,200 total military flight time (accumulation of Primary, Secondary, Instructor, Evaluator, Stimulator, Student and other US Military and Foreign Military Time) in mission design series of organization of position being filled. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form, Flying History Report or any official document what shows your most recent flight (last date actively flown), total flight hours and type of aircraft flown.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for an Airplane or Helicopter Pilot/Flight, GS-2181. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form or Flying History Report and failure to submit this form or report will result in an ineligible rating. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes your level of experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Airplane Flight Instructor, GS-2181-14 grade level. NOTE: Your Resume must support the response you select. YOUR RESUME AND/OR SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.

 I have a current United States Air Force Pilot rating, hold a valid aviation service aeronautical order and have completed a minimum of 1,500 total military flight time (accumulation of Primary, Secondary, Instructor, Evaluator, Stimulator, Student and other US Military and Foreign Military Time) in mission design series of organization of position being filled. You must submit an ATAFR-209 Form, Flying History Report or any official document what shows your most recent flight (last date actively flown), total flight hours and type of aircraft flown.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


5.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙