Position Title
Supervisory Attorney Advisor (Employee Labor Relations)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12827295-26-RP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 12, 2025 to Wednesday, November 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability that makes you eligible for Schedule A hiring authority?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide "proof of a disability" documentation signed and dated by your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits; i.e., certification that you are an individual with an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability, and can be considered for employment under the Schedule A hiring authority 5 CFR 213.3102(u).
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years);
are a disabled veteran;
served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15. Note: VRA applies to any grade level up to and including a GS-11 or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?
 Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do NOT possess this education. RESPONSE TYPE: Short Answer Textbox


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded
(MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia).
RESPONSE TYPE: Multiple Choice - Single Select


3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S.,
or the District of Columbia?

 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar. RESPONSE TYPE: Short Answer Textbox


4.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA).


5.
Required
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-15 position.

 Yes, I have 4 full years (48 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Developing case strategy, tactics, and presenting the Agency's position in litigation before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Merit Systems Protection Board, Federal Labor Relations Authority, and/or the Federal Service Impasses Panel, from initial complaint or charge until conclusion of the administrative process; providing oral and written legal guidance on a broad range of federal employment law and/or federal labor-management relations matters including adverse actions, performance management, equal employment opportunity issues and/or labor-management relations to management officials; and conducting settlement negotiations, coordinating with management officials on terms of settlement, and advising when adverse litigation decisions should be appealed. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙