Position Title
Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic Supervisor (HVAC FOREMAN)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
MRG-26-13053811 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


2.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


3.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


6.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Selective Factor:

Applicant must possess an EPA approved, Section 608 Technician Certifications "Type I" and "Type II";
OR
Possess an EPA approved, Section 608 Technician Certification "Universal".

Do you meet the selective factor for this position?

 Yes, I meet the Selective Factor requirement for this position.
 No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position.


NOTE: ALL applicants must clearly address the Selective Factor in their resume and/or MUST upload a copy of their license/certification at the time you apply. Failure to provide this documentation will result in loss of consideration for this position.

Exceptions: Current BOP Employees in the WS-5306 positions will be considered to have met the selective factor for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS

LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


3.
HVAC Foreman must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers; and/or I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance and providing training to new workers.
 I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or; I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew.
 I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.
 None of the above.


4.
In a correctional setting, HVAC Foreman must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law.
 I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution.
 I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals.
 None of the above.


5.
HVAC Foreman must have the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of heating, refrigeration and air conditioning systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have the ability to troubleshoot HVAC equipment to determine causes of malfunctions and recommend repairs as encountered.
 I have performed expert level tradesman with the ability to assemble and install HVAC equipment; and/or I have diagnosed and overhauled air-conditioners and all components; and/or I have sized and specified a variety of HVAC systems for cooling and heating capacity; and/or I possess national HVAC certification.
 I have the ability to work on air-conditioning or refrigeration equipment seeking assistance only when encountering unusual problems.
 None of the above.


6.
HVAC Foreman must have knowledge of and the ability to follow refrigeration and air-conditioning practices such as precise measurements and keeping tolerances, conserving materials, and applying new developments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked as a refrigeration or air-conditioning person for buildings; and/or I have performed assigned tasks under supervision of the section foreman; and/or I have been a sub-contractor for refrigeration or air-conditioning work in new construction; and/or I have Independently performed the tasks of the trade involved.
 I have worked as an assistant to a self-employed refrigeration or air-conditioning man; and/or I have performed various types of refrigeration or air-conditioning jobs as instructed.
 I have performed all types of refrigeration and air conditioning work; and/or I have converted ideas of builders into drawings and specifications; and/or I have independently repaired, altered, and erected equipment, per specifications and drawings.
 None of the above.


7.
HVAC Foreman must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have used engineer's blueprints and translated for material requirements; and/or I have made sketches for crew members for various sections; and/or I have checked work to ensure strict compliance with blueprint specifications; and/or I have converted ideas into drawings and specifications; and/or I have prepared my own drawings and estimated materials from specifications.
 I have followed blueprints and drawings for all types of refrigeration and air-conditioning tasks; and/or I have used technical manuals for specifications; and/or I have made my own drawings; and/or I have followed work orders, sketches and instructions from the section foreman to perform all types of refrigeration and air-conditioning work.
 I have followed blueprints and drawings to assemble prepared materials; and/or I have followed basic sketches to perform tasks.
 None of the above.


8.
HVAC Foreman must have the knowledge and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have instructed operators or other journeyman level workers in some phases of the operation, repair and maintenance; and/or I have performed diagnostic tests on various energy management systems; and/or I am knowledgeable and experienced in the use of (PLC) Program Logic Controllers; and/or I have used and maintained refrigerate recycling equipment and refrigerate reclaim equipment; and/or I have experience in troubleshooting or as a consultant for refrigeration or air-conditioning equipment.
 I have worked only as a helper or with direct supervision on a limited range of equipment; and/or I have used basic tools of the trade (gages, charging hoses, etc.).
 I have had shift responsibility with assistance available for unusual conditions; and/or I have independently performed major repairs with only occasional assistance; and/or I have adjusted energy management systems.
 None of the above.


9.
HVAC Foreman must have knowledge of the properties, purpose and use of the refrigeration and air-conditioning trades materials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have inspected material to guarantee quality; and/or I have, from specifications, ordered and inspected quality of materials used; and/or I have identified and selected proper equipment and oils for system working on; and/or I have determined types of materials needed for various job; and/or I have independently estimated and ordered all materials necessary to perform a wide variety of refrigeration or air-conditioning jobs.
 I have worked with all types of materials used in refrigeration and air-conditioning; and/or I have assembled, as instructed, using proper size and types of equipment involved; and/or as a crew member, I have become familiar with various materials used in refrigeration and air-conditioning work.
 For each job, I have determined the type of materials from specifications and knowledge of the materials; and/or I have rejected inferior parts; and/or I have identified appropriate replacement parts; and/or as a sub-contractor, I have been required to determine the proper material for various types of work performed.
 None of the above.


10.
HVAC Foreman must be able to locate system troubles, to determine the method of repair, and to use test instruments and methods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have been able to correct simple system failures independently; and/or I have been capable of troubleshooting and repairing residential systems.
 I have worked as a journeyman in a variety of repair work on refrigeration or air-conditioning equipment with independent responsibility; and/or I have troubleshot and recommended methods of resolving problems encountered; and/or I have repaired average sized systems, such as a walk-in cooler.
 I have served as troubleshooter for a complex utilities plant; and/or I have used a computer program (laptop) to diagnose complex repairs needed on large commercial chillers; and/or I have implemented cost effective schedules to maintain/calibrate complex heating and cooling systems.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙