Position Title
SECURITY ASSISTANT (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12951101-AR-26-096 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jun 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (JFHQ-G2) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (JFHQ-G2) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (PFC-SGT)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0086-07/09 Security position.
 I HAVE clerical or administrative work which indicates my ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0086-07/09 Security position.
 I HAVE at least 12 months experience, education or training 1) performing clerical or administrative duties in an office environment, 2) performing office functions using computers and automation systems, and 3) working independently and setting priorities with very little supervisory control.
 I HAVE experience and/or education (from an accredited university) to meet the overall specialized experience.
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of the experience, education or training listed above.
 I HAVE at least 24 months experience, education or training 1) performance of clerical or administrative duties demonstrating knowledge of personnel security program rules, procedures, operations and requirements, 2) demonstrating knowledge of military requirements and organizational structures, 3) skill in utilizing computerized data systems to input, update, and retrieve data in processing and preparing security clearance requests and reports; and to prepare correspondence or documents; and 4) communicating effectively in writing and orally in order to provide information and assistance on security requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙