Position Title
Supervisory Medical Management Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13044450-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Please read the instructions noted below regarding information that needs to be included in the resume, as well as SF-50 documentation requirements. Human Resources will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
GS-9 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Your experience must have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Examples of Specialized Experience are:
Knowledge of an extensive body of rules, procedures, or operations that require extended training and experience to perform a wide variety of interrelated or non-standard procedural assignments and resolve a wide range of problems.
Skill in written and oral communications (to develop new procedures and effectively communicate changes to all levels of pharmacy personnel and coordinate changes between services).
Knowledge of overall VHA organization, types of facilities, organizational structure of VISN, medical center and services (to initiate appropriate actions for the service).
Or;

GS-9 Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.

Or;

GS-9 Education/Experience Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond graduate level education (in excess of the first two years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) as described above. I understand my resume must reflect my experience.
 I have successfully completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I do not possess the experience or education to meet the basic requirements for the position. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


2.
GS-11 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Your experience must have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Examples of Specialized Experience are:
Knowledge of overall VHA organization, types of facilities, organizational structure of VISN, medical center and services (to initiate appropriate actions for the service).
Knowledge of hospital mission, management objectives, management principles and human resource management techniques (to supervise clerical staff, establish priorities and evaluate Specialty Care Service accomplishment of patient care objectives).
Knowledge of administrative issues pertaining to personnel management for bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit employees for appointments, disciplinary action, leave administration, workman's compensation, etc.
Skill in Microsoft programs including Excel, Word and Visio.
Knowledge of all operating clinical programs in which Specialty Care Service employees participate as well as ancillary services which interface with Specialty Care Service (to analyze programmatic progress compared to organizational objectives, and to identify and resolve problems between services).
Knowledge of labor relations processes, Medical Center and Specialty Care Service EEO goals and Merit Promotion Plans (to assure Specialty Care Service compliance in contract administration, affirmative action and other personnel programs).
Knowledge of Medical Center and Specialty Care Service memoranda, guidelines and regulations which affect patient care programs and office operations processes of Specialty Care Service (to resolve problems which impede patient care delivery and to make procedural changes designated to improve the effectiveness of the service).
Skill in written and oral communications (to develop new procedures and effectively communicate changes to all levels of pharmacy personnel and coordinate changes between services).
Skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or functions related to office administration, knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect administrative operations;
Skills reviewing and analyzing current programs and procedures to identify areas of improvement.
Ability address unique challenges and situations that occur both within the normal tour of duty and outside the normal tour of duty.
Ability to oversight of daily activities and performance of subordinate staff, ensuring compliance with established policies and procedures and well as for conducting performance appraisals, providing feedback and professional development.
Or

GS-11 Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. in a field related to this position. (Transcripts must be submitted with application)

OR

GS-11 Education/Experience Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond graduate level education (in excess of the first two years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements.

Do you have the experience/education as described in the above? Please select the appropriate response.

NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment. Transcripts must be submitted with application

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) as described above. I understand my resume must reflect my experience.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. in a field related to this position. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I do not possess the experience or education to meet the basic requirements for the position. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙