Position Title
Addiction Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12924302-26-JTE Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Addiction Therapist (Bachelor's Prepared). Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Addiction Therapist (Bachelor's Prepared) (AT). The AT level is designated for those who are bachelor's prepared ATs and hold the state's highest-level recognition for practice as bachelor's prepared (i.e., license or certification) in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. Although some states may recognize bachelor's prepared as an independent provider VHA only recognizes bachelor's prepared ATs as a dependent provider. ATs in this level assignment are dependent providers and perform work under guidance of Addiction Therapists (Licensed Master's) in designated assignments. Licensure and Certification. The state may title the highest-level of recognition as either "Licensed" or "certification"; however, when "license, licensure or non-licensed" reference is made throughout the appendix it is implied and intended for both certification and license granted by a state. An individual in an AT or LMAT position must hold the state's highest-level of recognition for the specified level/position being filled in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. It must be full, current and unrestricted.


Please provide your license/certification information.

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. ATs/LMATs appointed to direct patient care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).

Are you proficient in the English language?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education:

You must hold a bachelor's degree in drug and alcohol studies or a related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university. In some jurisdictions, individuals may not be required to hold a bachelor's degree to be licensed in Alcohol and Drug Treatment. VHA will not waive education requirements even if the candidate has a license that does not require a bachelor's degree.

Do you meet the education requirement stated above?

 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure Requirements: Persons appointed or reassigned to an AT position in the GS-0101 series must:

(a) Hold a full, current and unrestricted state license in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment; AND
(b) Complete one of the following:
International Certification and Reciprocity Consortium (IC&RC), Alcohol and Drug Counselor Certification (CASAC); or
National Association for Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors (NAADAC), Level 1.
Do you have a full, current and unrestricted state license in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment and one of the certifications stated above?
 I have a full, current and unrestricted state license in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment and have completed International Certification and Reciprocity Consortium (IC&RC), Alcohol and Drug Counselor Certification (CASAC) and have submitted a copy with my application.
 I have a full, current and unrestricted state license in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment and have completed National Association for Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors (NAADAC), Level 1 and have submitted a copy with my application.
 I do not meet the above licensure or certification.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS AND DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements outlined in paragraph 3 of Appendix G76 and paragraph 1 of this subappendix, the following criteria must be met when determining the qualification of candidates for the specified assignment


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-5 Grade Determination: Are you licensed with less than one year of experience?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-7 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements, you must have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. Duties include: addition screening assessments, orientation, education, treatment planning and counseling; OR

Possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in a major field of study in a drug and alcohol studies or a related behavioral health field with exemplary academic record as demonstrated by:

(a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on four years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; OR
(b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B+ or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum; OR
(c) Class Standing: Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university or major subdivision based on completed courses.

In addition to the experience/education requirements, you must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in treatment of individuals with SUDs.
(b) Knowledge of appropriate documentation of substance use history and treatment.
(c) Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress.

Do you meet the requirements for the GS-7 grade as stated above?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-9 GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to the basic requirements, you must have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. Duties include: assist with addiction screening, assessments, orientation, education, treatment planning and counseling. Identify patients experiencing psychological distress and engage licensed clinicians as necessary to provide crisis intervention.

You must also demonstrate the following KSAs:

a) Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders as interrelated to SUDs.
(b) Ability to complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning and continued care planning.
(c) Ability to develop and maintain effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, from various backgrounds and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals.

Do you meet the qualification requirements as stated above?

 Yes
 No


Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration: Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration. Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements. Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:

*Resume- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Grade Level (for federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

*Education- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Veteran's Preference- In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees- You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration(if applicable).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙