Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
NED-26-VLS-12986638-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Hartford, CT
 B. Wilmington, DE
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Chicago, IL
 E. Indianapolis, IN
 F. Togus, ME
 G. Baltimore, MD
 H. Boston, MA
 I. Detroit, MI
 J. Saint Louis, MO
 K. Manchester, NH
 L. Newark, NJ
 M. Buffalo, NY
 N. New York, NY
 O. Cleveland, OH
 P. Philadelphia, PA
 Q. Pittsburgh, PA
 R. Providence, RI
 S. White River Junction, VT
 T. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-11 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-12 grade level of this position and GS-12 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-13 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


1.
To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 level or higher in Federal Service.
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 level or higher in Federal Service.
 No, I do not have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 level or higher in Federal Service.


2.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade, you must have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 level or higher in Federal Service.

 Yes, I have at least one year time in-grade in a position at the GS-12 level or higher in Federal Service.
 No, I do not have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 level or higher in Federal Service.


This section includes questions about the specialized experience for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the specialized experience for Management Analyst, GS-0343-12/13. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Read all responses before making your selection.


3.
For the GS-12. Do you possess one-year specialized experience to at least the GS-11 level? 
Specialized experience is defined as applying quantitative and qualitative techniques to analyze, evaluate and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of VBA field operations. This experience includes but not limited to: collecting and organizing program or operational data; performing basic quantitative and qualitative analyses using statistical and analytical techniques; assisting in the preparation of evaluation metrics to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of field or organizational operations; supporting the identification of process bottlenecks by gathering and reviewing relevant data; participating in the development of recommendations to improve program outcomes; and assisting with compiling analysis results into reports and presentations for management review. Experience may also include supporting senior analysts in conducting operational studies, drafting sections of reports, and helping to implement approved process improvements.
 Yes
 No


4.
For the GS-13. Do you possess one-year specialized experience to at least the GS-12 level? 
Specialized experience is defined as applying quantitative and qualitative techniques to analyze, evaluate and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of VBA field operations. This experience includes conducting studies, analyzing results and making recommendations concerned with program operations; independently collecting, organizing, and interpreting quantitative and qualitative data using a variety of statistical and analytical methods; utilizing software tools to generate and present quantitative analysis and reports; designing and applying evaluation metrics and benchmarks to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of program or field operations; identifying operational bottlenecks and inefficiencies through comprehensive data analysis; and developing and implementing data-driven recommendations to improve processes and outcomes. Experience also includes compiling analytical results into clear and comprehensive presentations for leadership, preparing formal written reports, and communicating actionable recommendations to management and stakeholders to enhance organizational performance.
 Yes, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level.
 No, I do not possess the experience or education.


INSTRUCTIONS: The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙