Position Title
Sr Financial Management Specialist
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13031434-26-BG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Arlington, TX


Assessment 1
1.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent. To include •Demonstrated experience planning, coordinating, implementing, and sustaining significant changes to enterprise business processes or applications that support agency operations. •Demonstrated knowledge of labor administration and fee billing IT systems and the movement of data between interconnected systems, including the ability to analyze data integrity, identify discrepancies, understand upstream and downstream impacts, and improve overall data quality. •Demonstrated ability to evaluate organizational processes, identify inefficiencies, develop improved procedures, establish internal controls, and implement sustainable business improvements.• Demonstrated ability to analyze complex business, financial, and operational issues involving multiple variables; interpret financial and workload data from enterprise systems; identify root causes of problems; develop meaningful reports and performance metrics; and provide well-supported recommendations that improve organizational effectiveness and support executive decision-making. •Demonstrated ability to build collaborative relationships, communicate complex information clearly, influence stakeholders, provide technical guidance, and work effectively with personnel at all organizational levels.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙