Position Title
Supervisory Contact Representative
Agency
Vet Customer Experience (VCE)
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12856875-26-DB Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 29, 2025 to Jan 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a National Cemetery Administration (NCA) employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Department of Veterans Affairs Central Office (VACO) employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 B. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 A. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



4.
Please select the appropriate response(s) regarding your referral eligibility:
 A. Promotion Eligible
 B. Change to Lower Grade Eligible
 C. Reassignment Eligible
 D. Re-Promotion Eligible (previously held grade for a least one year)
 E. Interchange Agreement Eligible (I am in the Excepted Service)
 F. I am a Federal Wage System (WG/WL/WS) employee
 G. I am not a current Federal Employee
 H. Unsure or this does not apply to me


Assessment 1
Select the best answer for each question based on your job knowledge and experience. There is only one correct answer per question. Provide an answer to every question.


1.
What knowledge area is crucial for a supervisor overseeing VA Hotline Contact Representatives?
 Advanced clinical treatment protocols for Veterans
 Comprehensive understanding of VA programs, benefits, services, and referral pathways
 Federal procurement and acquisition regulations
 Statistical sampling theory used in academic research


2.
What action should a Contact Representative take when receiving a call from a suicidal veteran?

 Provide counseling services until the Veteran calms down
 Transfer the call to any available VA office
 Follow established emergency protocols and ensure immediate referral to appropriate crisis resources
 Document the call after the shift ends


3.
Which metric is most appropriate for evaluating Contact Representative performance in a VA call center environment?

 Number of personal opinions provided to callers
 Accuracy, timeliness, quality standards, and adherence to standard operating procedures
 Length of each call regardless of outcome
 Seniority of the employee handling the call


4.
What is the appropriate corrective action if a supervisor identifies a decline in concern for documentation accuracy?

 Issue immediate discipline to all staff
 Reassign all concern intake duties to one employee
 Analyze data, identify root causes, and provide targeted coaching or training to correct deficiencies
 Ignore the issue until annual performance reviews


5.
What knowledge is required to refer a caller to the correct VA organization?

 Only the local facility phone directory
 Understanding of VA organizational structure, program responsibilities, and external referral options
 Knowledge limited to the supervisors own unit
 Informal guidance learned from coworkers


6.
What is the primary purpose of quality assurance monitoring of recorded calls?

 To identify reasons to discipline employees
 To ensure compliance with procedures, improve service quality, and identify training needs
 To reduce call volume
 To evaluate caller satisfaction surveys only


7.
Which action demonstrates proper handling of escalated and emotionally charged calls?

 Ending the call quickly to avoid confrontation
 Allowing the caller to direct the conversation without guidance
 Using structured questioning, de-escalation techniques, and clear communication of policies
 Referring all escalated calls immediately to senior leadership


8.
Which factor most strongly supports a recommendation for changing standard operating procedures?

 Personal preference for different workflows
 Feedback from a single employee
 Data analysis, quality reviews, and observed operational inefficiencies
 External media coverage unrelated to performance


9.
What knowledge is essential for resolving informal employee complaints or grievances?

 Personal opinions about workplace fairness
 VA Human Resources, VA personnel policies, and applicable regulations
 External private sector human resources practices
 Advice from coworkers outside the organization


10.
When analyzing call center productivity, which approach reflects appropriate program oversight knowledge?

 Reviewing only daily call volume totals
 Evaluating qualitative and quantitative data against established performance goals
 Comparing employees to one another without defined standards
 Focusing solely on overtime usage


11.
What documents are commonly required in this supervisory role to evaluate employee performance?

 Clinical treatment notes
 Legislative testimony drafts
 Performance appraisals, analytical reports, and management recommendations
 Marketing materials for public campaigns


12.
What is the correct response when a supervisor becomes aware of changes in VA policy affecting the intake of a caller's complaint or concern?

 Wait until employees ask questions
 Continue using existing procedures until formally audited
 Update processes, communicate changes, and ensure staff compliance
 Apply the policy only to new employees


13.
What knowledge supports effective service recovery actions?

 Customer satisfaction trends, root causes of caller concerns, and VA service standards
 Caller demographic data only
 Media reporting timelines
 Budget execution rules


14.
What is the supervisor's responsibility when handling employee time off or leave requests?

 Automatically approve all requests
 Deny leave during high call volume periods without review
 Review and approve requests in accordance with policy and operational needs
 Delegate all decisions to senior leadership


15.
What system knowledge is required for effective oversight of Veteran interactions?

 Only basic email systems
 Customer Relationship Management tools, Standard Operating Procedures, and call center reporting tools
 External social media platforms
 Payroll processing systems


16.
Which factor most directly affects the accuracy of complaint or concern intake documentation?

 The callers tone of voice
 Adherence to established intake procedures and correct system use
 The length of the call
 The time of day the call is received


17.
Which approach demonstrates appropriate supervisory control over work assignments?

 Assigning work randomly to ensure fairness
 Assigning work based on priorities, complexity, and employee capability
 Allowing employees to select all assignments themselves
 Assigning all complex work to the most senior employee


18.
What knowledge is most critical when developing recommendations for call center improvements?

 Political considerations only
 Data analysis methods, operational processes, and customer impact
 Personal experience from previous unrelated roles
 External industry trends without VA context


19.
What knowledge supports compliance with Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) requirements?

 Informal team norms
 VA EEO policies, merit system principles, and nondiscriminatory practices
 Local customs within the work unit
 Employee preferences


20.
What is the supervisor's role when Contact Representatives deviate from quality standards?

 Ignore deviations unless a complaint is received
 Immediately initiate formal discipline
 Provide coaching, document performance, and take appropriate corrective action
 Transfer the employee to another unit


Assessment 2
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙