Position Title
Recreation Specialist- Auto Skills
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CC-26-12844546 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, December 5, 2025 to Thursday, December 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist - (Community Recreation Department) NF-0188-03 vacancy. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification. All experience must be clearly documented on resume.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you. (Transcripts must be received if qualifying based on education)
 A minimum of a 4-year degree in General Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Recreation Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, or Physical Education.
 I possess at least three years of specialized experience that includes, planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
 I possess a combination of education and experience.
 I possess none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have working in a recreational field that includes but not limited to the following: program planning, coordinating recreational workshops and activities, classes, or instruction lead services for individuals and groups of varying demographics, ages and interest?
 I do not have any of the above-mentioned experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you possess in creating, negotiating, implementing, and sustaining partnerships within the local community or military organizations?
 I do not have any experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have at least four (4) years of experience as mentioned above.


4.
How many years of experience do you possess speaking in front of both small and large groups?
 I have no experience with public speaking.
 I have less than one (1) year of public speaking.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of public speaking.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of public speaking.
 I have more than four (4) years of public speaking.


5.
How many years of experience do you possess with using a computer, composing reports, using databases for various reasons, organizing and maintaining records, and utliziing various software programs
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


6.

This position is primarily staffed at an Auto Skill Center, where patrons come and work on their cars within a supervised controlled environment. Although, not required, it is preferred that applicants have experience with the following: automotive tools, hydraulic lifts, basic automotive maintenance such as oil changes

 

How many years of experience do you possess with the above experience?

 I do not have any of the above-mentioned experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙