Position Title
Executive Program Director, Fleet and Family Readiness Programs
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12857205 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Citizenship Status
1.
You must be a U.S. citizen to obtain and maintain a Top Secret clearance. Are you a U.S. citizen?
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. Your resume should demonstrate accomplishments that would satisfy the technical qualifications for the Executive Program Director, Fleet and Family Readiness Programs position. Please ensure your resume fully supports your response for each of the listed questions. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Describe your methodology for developing major program policy and its corresponding resource strategy, including the alignment of programs with higher-level strategic goals, the analytical validation of need and effectiveness, and the justification of resources through formal budget and programming processes.


2.
Explain your approach for providing executive-level oversight of a large, complex organization utilizing both Appropriated Funds (APF) and Nonappropriated Funds (NAF), encompassing the monitoring of financial and operational performance, the enforcement of regulatory compliance, and the implementation of corrective guidance for subordinate activities.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙