Position Title
Sr. Healthcare Facility Engineer
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-OK-26-12846086-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, December 4, 2025 to Friday, December 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


7.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Health Facilities Engineer position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Basic Requirement
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements for a professional engineer. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background and  demonstrates how you meet the education and/or experience requirements.
 I have a degree in professional engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a degree in professional engineering that includes differential and integral calculus and courses in at least 5 of the following 7 areas: (1) statistics, dynamics; (2) strength of materials; (3) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (4) thermodynamics; (5) electrical fields and circuits; (6) nature and properties of materials; (7) any other comparable area of engineering science or physics.
 I have a degree in professional engineering from a foreign institution that has been accepted as equivalent to a conventional U.S. higher education program.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering as demonstrated by my current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering as demonstrated by passing the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination or the written test required for professional registration; and, completion of a bachelor`s degree in engineering technology (BET) from an accredited college/university that included at least 60 semester hours/90 quarter hours in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering which includes at least 60 semester/90quarter hours in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included differential and integral calculus. All courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering that includes a bachelor`s degree in a related curriculum (engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), AND at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


2.
Minimum Qualification, GS-0801-12
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements for this series, select one response below that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-12 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples include: leading the planning, design, construction, or renovation of healthcare or related facilities, ensuring compliance with building codes, engineering standards, and accreditation requirements; independently evaluating engineering operations or facility systems, identifying complex deficiencies, and implementing corrective actions to improve performance, safety, and efficiency; serve as a project manager with responsibility for contract oversight, technical review, cost control, and resolution of engineering issues; and conducting facility inspections, risk assessments, and compliance reviews tied to safety, environmental, or accreditation standards.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY
As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Certification of Information Accuracy If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙