Position Title
General Attorney (Contract)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13069001-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a General Attorney (Contract), position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of General Attorney (Contract) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.).
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a General Attorney (Contract) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service
 I have two or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, performing the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: 1) Examines contract records, interviews personnel involved in engineering, contract administration and inspection activities, and uses experts in the areas of engineering, contract administration and scheduling; 2) Performs extensive research and analysis and prepares the Contracting Officer's report in final form for transmittal directly to the Division Counsel or Chief Counsel; 3) Renders legal assistance and advice in regard to 1) water resources planning for Federal and non-Federal projects; the preparation and processing of environmental impact statements and assessments under the National Environmental Protection Act; 4) Provides legal advice and assistance in the broad area of Employment law, including but not limited to: Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the Civil Rights Act of 1991; 29 CFR 1614; 5 CFR 1200-1206 and 1209, et seq; 5 USC 1205; 5 USC 7701; 5 USC 7504, 7514, and 7543.
 I have an advance law degree such as an LLM (masters of law) or a graduate with a distinguished record from an ABA-Accredited Law School in the top 25% of the class which I may substitute for one year of the required professional legal experience and I have one year of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: 1) Examines contract records, interviews personnel involved in engineering, contract administration and inspection activities, and uses experts in the areas of engineering, contract administration and scheduling; 2) Performs extensive research and analysis and prepares the Contracting Officer's report in final form for transmittal directly to the Division Counsel or Chief Counsel; 3) Renders legal assistance and advice in regard to 1) water resources planning for Federal and non-Federal projects; the preparation and processing of environmental impact statements and assessments under the National Environmental Protection Act; 4) Provides legal advice and assistance in the broad area of Employment law, including but not limited to: Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the Civil Rights Act of 1991; 29 CFR 1614; 5 CFR 1200-1206 and 1209, et seq; 5 USC 1205; 5 USC 7701; 5 USC 7504, 7514, and 7543.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
Are you a member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙