Position Title
Operations Specialist (Remote Delivery)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
OPO-JD-12988293-26-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee in the competitive service?
OR
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with an excepted service agency and meet the criteria for appointment into the competitive service based on a DHS interchange agreement?  

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Department of Homeland Security employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Permanent or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service or Excepted Service* (Position Occupied is 1 or 2 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
*If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial appointment SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment. For information review Interchange Agreements With Other Merit Systems

Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Applicants who previously received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from a federal agency should be aware that, under federal law, individuals who return to federal employment within five years of receiving a VSIP are generally required to repay the full amount of the incentive to the agency that paid it before they can be reemployed.

If you previously received a VSIP, please indicate the agency and year in which the payment was received. Please type "no" if you have not received a VSIP.



Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.


All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.


1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 Yes
 No


3.
Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero).


4.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 Yes, I would like my resume to be shared.
 No, I do not want my resume to be shared.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Operations Specialist (Remote Delivery) position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Specialist (Remote Delivery) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service which includes assisting with logistics planning, design, and execution to support operational requirements; communicating with customers about delivery and work order status, including updates, delays, and clearance issues; providing delivery and work order forecasts to support truck screening operations and staffing.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate-level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor’s degree, and I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. To be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.).
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B or C. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Specialist (Remote Delivery) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service which includes analyzing the causes and impacts of delays or issues to identify risks and inform corrective actions; adjusting plans and schedules to meet changing logistical requirements so that operations stay on track; guiding staff through the screening procedures and providing the required documentation to complete the process correctly; collaborating with leadership to periodically review access control procedures and recommend changes to improve program efficiency.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL. B or J.D., if related, in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙