Position Title
Youth Director (Small or Medium)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13005743 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2026 to Jul 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Essay Questions.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Youth Director (Small or Medium), position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you?
 I have a Bachelor’s degree or higher related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, or related field of study AND three years of specialized full-time experience working with children or youth.
 I have an unrelated degree, but I have a combination of education and experience; education must include courses in a youth-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours. In addition, I have three years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth is required.
 I have combination of education and experience; education must include courses in a youth-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours. In addition, I have three years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth is required.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master's degree or higher related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, or related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, or related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have an unrelated degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child and youth development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management.?

 I have 4+ years’ of experience, as described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program (CYP).
 I have 1 to 3 years’ described above, at the director level in a DOW CYP.
 I have 4+ years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside DOW .
 I have 1 to 3 years’ of experience, as described above, at the director level outside DOW.
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial, budget, and resource management practices as it pertains to child and youth programs?


 I have 4+ years’ of experience, as described above, at the director level DOW CYP.
 I have 1 to 3 years’ described above, at the director level in a DOW CYP.
 I have 4+ years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside the DOW CYP.
 I have 1-3 years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside the DOW.
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?


 I have 10+ years’ experience, as described above.
 I have 5-9 years’ experience, as described above.
 I have 1-4 years’ experience, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
What size of DOW School-Age Care (SAC) program do you have experience in managing?


 I have experience managing a extra-large DoW SAC program (300+ children).
 I have experience managing a large DoW SAC program (200-299 children)
 I have experience managing a medium DoW SAC program (101 to 199 children).
 I have experience managing a small DoW SAC program (up to 100 children).
 I have experience managing a extra-small DoW SAC program (less than 28 children).
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
What size of DOW Teen program do you have experience in managing?

 I have experience managing a large DoW Teen program (25+ Average Daily Attendance)
 I have experience managing a medium DoW Teen program (20 Average Daily Attendance)
 I have experience managing a small DoW Teen program (up to 15 Average Daily Attendance)
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


8.
What size of DOW Youth Sports & Fitness (YSF) program do you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing an extra-large DoW YSF program (1,000+ participants annually)
 I have experience managing a large DoW YSF program (600-999 participants annually)
 I have experience managing a medium DoW YSF program (300-599 participants annually)
 I have experience managing a small DoW YSF program (up to 300 participants annually)
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙