Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
317-26-13020644-AB-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veteran Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience and/or education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.



AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open to current, permanent employees of the St. Petersburg Veterans Benefits Administration Regional Office and current/former employees who are CTAP eligible only.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee of the St. Petersburg VBA Regional Office or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion or non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. Your responses will be subject to verification. You must provide SF-50s to prove time in grade. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks' time in-grade. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your most recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit and SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time in-grade. 


2.
Do you possess at least 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-07 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Management Analyst position at the GS-09 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-07 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-07 level.


3.
Do you possess at least 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-09 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Management Analyst position at the GS-11 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-09 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-09 level.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Management Analyst, GS-0343-09, position. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-07). Specialized Experience is defined as applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies; researching and applying pertinent regulations, policies and precedents which affect work processes and operations; and experience conducting detailed analysis of complex issues, work functions and/or work processes.


4.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Management Analyst GS-09.
 I have at lease one year of specialized experience as described in the announcment at the GS-07 grade level in the federal service to qualify for the Management Analyst GS-09 position.
 I have a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or have completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (You must submit a copy of your official transcript)
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however my combined experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification.
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, or C.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Management Analyst, GS-0343-11, position. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-09). Specialized Experience is defined as, thorough knowledge of management and organizational principles and practice; quantitative and qualitative techniques to analyze, evaluate, and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of organizational operations; demonstrate expert communication skills to present and articulate findings to management; working as a liaison between two or more individuals in order to make a decision.


5.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Management Analyst GS-11.
 I have at lease one year of specialized experience as described in the announcment at the GS-09 grade level in the federal service to qualify for the Management Analyst GS-11 position.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (You must submit a copy of your official transcirpt.)
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however my combined experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification.
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, or C.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙