Position Title
Safety & Occupational Health Specialist-Technical Career Field (TCF) Trainee
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13054637-26-JM Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Restriction GS-7: Applicants who are current, permanent federal employees who have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (For federal employees who are in the WG-WL-WS pay system, this restriction does not apply to you). For this vacancy, applicants must have served 52 weeks at the GS-5 level to be eligible for the GS-7. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. A SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.



1.
This occupational series has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) which is a minimum qualification requirement. To be considered for the position, you must ensure that the experience is reflected in your resume and/or if applicable, transcripts must be uploaded to support education requirement or substitution.
Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene), or degree in other related fields that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. OR,
Specialized Experience: Experience in or related to safety and occupational health that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:- Managing safety or occupational health program elements.- Developing and recommending safety and occupational health policy to higher levels of management.- Applying safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, theories, practices, and procedures to advise on or resolve technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements.- Developing safety and occupational health standards, regulations, practices, and procedures to eliminate or control potential hazards.- Developing or implementing programs to reduce the frequency, severity, and cost of accidents and occupational illnesses.- Analyzing or evaluating new and existing jobs, processes, products, or other systems to determine the existence, severity, probability, and outcome of hazards.- Designing or modifying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems to control or eliminate hazards.- Inspecting or surveying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems for compliance with established safety and occupational health policies or standards and to identify potential new hazards.- Training of workers, supervisors, managers, or other safety and occupational health personnel in safety or occupational health subjects.- Work in occupational fields such as industrial hygienist, safety engineer, fire prevention engineer, health physicist, and occupational health nurse.
 I meet the IOR requirement by having the education. (Transcript required).
 I meet the IOR requirement by having the specialized experience.
 I DO NOT meet the IOR as described above; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


2.
Specialized Experience GS-07: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Under supervision keep all equipment under control in the best possible condition and will keep aware of the latest developments in the fields of Occupational Safety, Health, Fire Protection and Industrial Hygiene. Reviews safety instructions and guides that are relevant to current or planned contracts and center employees. Prepares written reports of the investigations into Occupational Safety & Health incidents/problems identified on station and presents recommendations for the sound solution to these problems. Conducts inspection of workplaces at the facility, citing Occupational Safety, Health, Fire Protection requirements, and prepares recommendations for appropriate corrective actions that efficiently utilizes available resources. OR,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have a 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement if related. NOTE: A transcript must be submitted if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Applications submitted without this information may not be considered. OR,
Combination of Experience & Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must possess equivalent combinations of successfully completed education beyond a bachelor's degree and specialized experience, as described above, which meets the total experience requirements for this grade level. NOTE: Your experience must be documented in your resume and transcripts are required.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Experience must be fully documented in resume.
 I possess a full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement.
 I possess a combination of experience education. My total qualifying experience as a percentage of the specialized experience required plus my total creditable education as a percentage of the education required equals at least 100 percent.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-7.


3.
Specialized Experience GS-09: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service.
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Experience in or related to safety and occupational health that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience is defined as: Experience managing Environment of Care (EOC) Program, coordinating safety inspections, and using Performance Logic software for effective monitoring and documentation of compliance activities. Demonstrates knowledge of regulations associated with an Occupational Health & Safety Management program, such as but not limited to OSHA, NFPA, TJC, EPA, and NIOSH. Experience preparing reports and analyzing data to help leadership ensure Environment of Care compliance with VHA and regulatory standards, supporting a safe environment at the medical center and CBOCs. OR,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related in a major course of study stated above. OR,
Combination: Combinations of successfully completed graduate level education beyond 1 full year and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements for GS-9. This may be computed by first determining your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining your education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Experience must be fully documented in resume.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related in a major course of study stated above
 I possess a combination of successfully completed graduate level education beyond 1 full year and experience to meet total qualification requirements for GS-9.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-9.


RESUME REMINDER: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e., the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. In your resume you will need to address the general and specialized experience listed above. 

Your resume must include the following information each job listed:
Job title;
Duties (be as detailed as possible);
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008).
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.  This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position. It is beneficial to add education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion.


SF-50, NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION REMINDER: If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Please Note:
If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.
Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
General Adjustment SF-50's within the past year do not provide the information to reflect time-in-grade requirement has been met and therefore cannot be the only SF-50.
If you are currently serving in a Hybrid Title 38 position, your SF-50's must reflect you have been in the position longer than one year.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙