Position Title
Supervisory General Engineer-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-080103-12840877-JDJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 24, 2025 to Wednesday, December 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a General Engineer, NH-0801-03. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an General Engineer at the NH-03 level or equivalent pay band. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering from an Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) accredited school and/or that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (beyond first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, or electronics.
 I am currently registered as a professional engineer by a state, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have successfully passed the written test required for professional registration or have successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination and have completed all the requirements for either (1) a bachelor's degree in engineering technology (BET) from an accredited college or university that included at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, or (2) a BET from an ABET-accredited program.
 I have successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in item "A" above and that are fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) and have at least 1 full year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer (failure to submit the following documentation will result in you being rated ineligible: training plan, performance appraisal and/or letter from Professional Engineer Supervisor with license number).
 I do not meet any of the above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an General Engineer at the NH-03 level or equivalent. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have, or will have within 120 days of closing of this announcement, 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband (NH-02) equivalent to the lower grade (GS-11), or equivalent in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is encompassing a range of engineering tasks that draw on electronics, mechanical, aerospace, and other fields to satisfy customer needs and involves utilizing emerging technologies and business practices to devise effective solutions, performing analyses through systematic methods, and overseeing projects/test planning expertise to meet business and technical objectives.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙