Position Title
SUPERVISORY CONTRACT SPECIALIST - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-110204-12854064-SEW Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Jan 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of SUPERVISORY CONTRACT SPECIALIST, NH-1102-04. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have (or will have) at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband (NH-03), equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-13) (or equivalent in an alternative pay system) in the Federal service within 90 days of the closing date for this announcement. Specialized experience is experience which includes experience in one or more of the following: (1) soliciting, evaluating, negotiating, and awarding contracts; (2) administering contracts by assuring compliance with the terms and conditions; (3) terminating contracts by analyzing, negotiating, and settling claims and proposals; (4) analyzing and evaluating cost/price proposals and accounting systems; (5) planning, establishing, or reviewing contracts, programs, policies, or procedures; (6) formulating and administering policies and procedures to insure achievement of socioeconomic goals; (7) developing acquisition strategies and directing or managing procurements; and/or (8) providing functional staff advisory services within the contracting occupation. Duties may have included awarding of contracts within delegated contracting officer authority, or recommending award to contracting officer on contracts outside delegated authority.
 I do not have the specialized experience described in above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of the position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙