Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
317-26-SM-13011890-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describes your experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION REQUIREMENT: - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current VBA employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration or the Support Services Specialist GS-0342-12 position.
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 I am Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible.
 My status is not described in the options above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
Time-in-Grade - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-11 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


Basic Requirement/IOR: In order to be found qualified, applicants must meet the Individual Occupational Requirement below: Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level (GS-11) in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: - Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures. - Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization. - Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc. - Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization. - Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance.



3.
Basic Requirements/IOR - Basic Requirements/IOR - In addition to the above Basic Requirement/IOR, applicants must also meet the Specialized Experience Requirement. To qualify for the Support Services Specialist at the GS-12 grade level, applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level or equivalent. Specialized Experience may have been gained in the Federal, Military, or private sectors.
Specialized experience is defined as:
1. Experience with assisting with facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects, and analysis and assessment of the efficacy of various administrative programs.
2. Knowledge of office space refurbishment, team or office relocation, facility enhancements, workstation modifications, small construction, etc.
3. Experience and knowledge in administering environmental, health, safety, and/or security regulations obtained through tasks including conducting safety and/or security inspections, working with or overseeing a safety and/or security program, or spotting and/or correcting safety and/or security vulnerabilities.
4. Knowledge of administration and management of identity card programs, including managing paper inventory, issuing cards, supervising role-holders administratively, and issuing cards as appropriate.

From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT for the Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-12 position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙