Position Title
Practical Nurse (Licensed Practical Nurse)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
ALI-26-13033745 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.
Candidates must be currently licensed to practice as practical or vocational nurses in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia or must have applied for a license to practice.
Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a certified or photostatic copy of the license, a notarized statement attesting to the fact, or a citation of the license number and State issuing it. Non-licensed candidates who have completed their training may be appointed subject to obtaining the required license during the probationary period. No person appointed pending licensure may be retained beyond the probationary period if licensure has not been attained. All supporting documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the licensure requirement, applicants must have one year of nursing experience equivalent to at least the GS-6 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙