Position Title
Surface Maintenance Mechanic Leader (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13045242-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please read and answer all questions carefully. Make sure to review your answers before submitting. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Army National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Army National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


2.
Are you an E-7/SFC not to exceed E-9/CSM -OR- a W-1/W01?



NOTE: Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Army National Guard in the ranks listed above. Civilians without prior service should respond "No".
 Yes, I am an E-7/SFC not to exceed E-9/CSM.
 Yes, I am a W-1/W01 .
 I do not possess one of the above listed ranks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? For Dual-Status Technician positions service affiliation under Title 32 USC 709 is required. Military skill set is determined by AFSC/MOS requirements. Upon selection, individuals must be assigned to a compatible military AFSC/MOS per statutes and National Guard Bureau regulations and must obtain/maintain all requirements of the AFSC/MOS.

Compatible MOS: 12, 13, 14, 19, 25, 88, 90, 91, 92, 94

 Yes
 No


4.
Please type your current rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



5.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Specialized Experience Requirement for the Surface Maintenance Mechanic Leader, WL-5801-10 position.

 I have experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems. Knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards. Ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems. – In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, and lead the work of others in fields directly related the repair function of this occupational series. Must have the ability to perform administrative functions; to read and interpret a variety of technical publications used in the repair of supported equipment. The ability to provide guidance to others in work related directly to this occupational series.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret Security clearance?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret Security clearance within the first year of employment?

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? If yes please upload a copy of your orders.

 Yes
 No


9.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙