Position Title
Senior Psychologist Program Manager (Deputy Chief) Huntsville
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12978390-26-ELB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency:

Psychologists must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Regulations.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education:

Please select from one of the responses below to indicate how you meet the education requirement for the GS-180 Psychologist occupational series.

PLEASE NOTE that supporting documentation in the form of college transcripts must be submitted with your application.
 I have a doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS), or the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) at the time the program was completed.
 I have a doctoral degree in any area of psychology and, in addition, successfully completed a respecialization program (including documentation of an approved internship completed as part of the respecialization program) meeting both of the following conditions: (a) The re-specialization program must be completed in an APA or a CPA accredited doctoral program; and, (b) the specialty in which the applicant is retrained must be consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed.
 I have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally accredited institution, with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature.
 I was employed as a VHA Psychologist (GS-14) on February 7, 2018 and am still employed as such and meet the grandfathering provision.
 I do not meet any of the criteria listed in this section (none of the above options apply to me).


3.
Internship:

Please select from one of the responses below that most accurately describes how you meet the internship requirement for the VA Psychologist position.

NOTE: You must submit proof of meeting the internship requirement with your application packet.
 I have successfully completed a professional psychology internship training program that was accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed and that is consistent with the assignment for which I am to be employed.
 I have successfully completed a New VHA psychology internship program that is in the process of applying for APA accreditation that is acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement, provided that the program was sanctioned by the VHA Central Office Program Director for Psychology and the VHA Office of Academic Affiliations at the time I was an intern.
 I completed my psychology internship at a VHA facility that offered a full-time, one-year pre-doctoral internship prior to PL 96-151 (pre-1979). NOTE: This is considered to be acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement.
 I completed an internship that was not accredited by the APA or CPA at the time the program was completed however I am currently board certified by the American Board of Professional Psychology in a specialty area that is consistent with the assignment/position that is in this job announcement. (NOTE: Once board certified and hired as a VA Psychologist, it is required to maintain the board certification.)
 Applicants who have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally accredited institution with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature may fulfill this internship requirement by having the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience in a site specifically acceptable to the candidate?s doctoral program. If the internship experience is not noted on the applicant?s official transcript, the applicant must provide a statement from the doctoral program verifying that the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience was completed in a site acceptable to the doctoral program.
 I was employed as a VHA Psychologist (GS-14) on February 7, 2018 and am still employed as such and meet the grandfathering provision.
 I do not meet any of the criteria listed in this section (none of the above options apply to me).


4.
Licensure:

Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?

Please ensure that you submit a current copy. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 Yes.
 I was employed as a VHA Psychologist (GS-14) on February 7, 2018 and am still employed as such and meet the grandfathering provision.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


5.
Board Certification:

Persons hired to psychology positions in the VHA who completed an internship that was not accredited at the time the program was completed must be board certified by the American Board of Professional Psychology in a specialty area that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. The board certificate must be current, and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirement for continuing education.

If applicable, do you meet this requirement? Please ensure that you submit a copy.
 Yes
 No
 This does not apply to me.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-15 Senior Psychologist Program Manager Requirements:

In addition to meeting the basic requirements, the applicant must also meet the grade requirements for the position.

Applicants must meet the following for the GS-15 senior program manager.

Experience. At least four years of experience as a professional psychologist, with at least one year equivalent to the GS-14 grade level. Examples of experience at the GS-14 level include but not limited to: have broad program management responsibilities for a specific program or programs that are designed to deliver specialized, complex, highly professional services that are important program components of the facility and that significantly impact the health care provided to Veterans. Programs include but are not limited to addiction, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), mental health intensive case management (MHICM), mental health compensation and pension examination (C&P) programs, Psychosocial Rehabilitation and Recovery Centers, inpatient mental health, residential rehabilitation, domiciliary, palliative care, neuropsychology, and internship and postdoctoral fellowship training programs; management of an off- campus site; psychology program oversight and coordination throughout the facility and its affiliated clinics as a psychology executive, typically at lower complexity facilities. Decisions made by the Program Manager affect staff and other resources associated with the programs managed and are made while exercising wide latitude and independent judgment. The type of program managed and scope of responsibility are critical aspects of the assignment at this level. Responsibilities include operation and management of key clinical, training, research, or administrative programs to include full responsibility for managing the day to day activities of those programs. Responsibility may include supervision of staff but is not required. Psychologist Program Managers are responsible for strategic planning to ensure the provision of high quality services to meet the needs of the Veterans being served and planning, and developing and implementing short- and long-term goals and objectives consistent with the program's strategic plan. They have oversight of administrative and programmatic resources and deploy those resources in support of the program needs. They develop and implement programs, policies, and procedures to meet program goals, VHA policy and external accreditation requirements, and monitor outcomes using data-driven quality assurance processes, and implement strategies for improvement based on data analysis.

In addition to the above, applicants must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
1. Skill in managing and directing the work of large, complex organizational units and in applying effective management practices. 2. Skill in persuasion, negotiation, and motivation to negotiate multiple program policies.
3. Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with employees and other managers using advanced consultation and problem solving skills.
4. Skill in the application and analysis of measurement tools to systems issues.
5. Ability to balance responsibilities in a complex environment and to work with great autonomy; ability to set priorities and delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze complex organizational problems; and ability to develop and implement effective solutions for those problems.
6. Ability to assess need for basic and complex services across multiple programmatic contexts.
7. Ability to coordinate the efforts of multiple program elements across a complex system.

Do you meet ALL of these requirements? You must ensure you fully detail this in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


*RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job Title and a summary of duties. (be as detailed as possible) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (MUST include hours worked per week if part-time). * Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. * Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


*Transcript Reminder - This position has a formal education requirement. You MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient. You must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) that show a conferred date and degree awarded with your application if you're basing your qualifications off education.

*Licensure/Certification Reminder - You must submit a copy of your valid/current license/certificate with your application if you're basing your eligibility off this qualification

*SF-50 (Notice of Personnel Action) Reminder:  *To demonstrate you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent SF-50 (dated within the year).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙