Position Title
Human Resources Assistant (Military)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13003571-WE-NL-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security civilian employee in the competitive service who meets the following criteria? I have held, or currently hold either:
A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
If eligible, submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security civilian employee in the competitive service?


If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1). Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service?

Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis.


2.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held. (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present)


3.
Which of the following responses BEST represents your performance rating?
 I received the highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received the second highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years in a related or unrelated position.
 I do not meet any of the performance rating described above.


4.
Which of the following BEST represents your awards history? Awards include sustained superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, meritorious civilian service awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards. Letters of commendation and appreciation are NOT creditable.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I have not received any awards.


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
From the description below, select the one response which best describes your education qualification requirements for the Human Resources Assistant, GS-0203-08.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service to include: managing, updating, and safeguarding official military personnel records for active, reserve, or retired components within a human resources command; demonstrating proficiency in maintaining data integrity for career milestone; conducting record audits to ensure accountability and readiness; performing data entry, verification, and life cycle management within official electronic records management systems; demonstrating technical guidance and corrective feedback to team members to maintain organizational consistency and/or resolve complex record discrepancies; serving as a primary liaison for technical and administrative inquiries within a human resources environment; communicating technical requirements to non-technical users and adapt to shifting organizational priorities while maintaining high service-level standards; evaluating and optimizing human resources records management workflows through the application of federal, military, or equivalent regulatory structure.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


3.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.
 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙