Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator
Agency
National Archives and Records Administration
Announcement Number
DE-12974045-26-KB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this National Archives and Records Administration job opportunity?
USAJOBS website
Community Organization
Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
Friend/Relative/Colleague
Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
Newspaper
School, College, Counselor, Career Center
Vacancy Announcement Posting
Virtual Open House/Workshop
Professional Organization
Radio/TV
LinkedIn
Twitter
Other


4.
When the National Archives and Records Administration completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared within the agency who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional hiring managers. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 Yes
 No


5.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Which of the following Commercial Driver License (CDL) do you currently possess and are able to maintain? A copy of the valid license must be submitted with your application packet.
 Class A CDL
 Class B CDL
 None of the above


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
I have experience operating vehicles (cargo vans, tractor-trailers, box trucks, etc.) ,with a gross vehicle weight ranging from 10,000 lbs to over 26,000 lbs, safely through varying traffic conditions while obeying traffic laws.  Without supervision, I can perform routine maintenance on assigned vehicles to include monitoring fluid levels, replacing air filters, checking tire pressure, and washing. I can complete vehicle safety inspection checklist, maintenance records and accident reports and other administrative records pertaining to deliveries or pick-ups. I can effectively communicate with supervisors, co-workers and customers about deliveries or pick-ups.
 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Specify which answer best describes your ability to interpret instructions and specifications.
 The ability to interpret instructions and specifications routinely, with the ability to train others in various tasks with little to no supervision.
 The ability to interpret instructions and specifications routinely under supervision as needed in unusual situations, projects and tasks.
 The ability to interpret instructions and specifications under close supervision.
 I have not had experience, education or training in the ability to interpret instructions and specifications.


4.
Choose all of the following that apply to your experience:
 A. I have detected motor/equipment malfunctions and am skilled in minor repair.
 B. I have checked water in batteries and radiators.
 C. I have checked fluids in crankcase, power steering, and automatic transmissions.
 D. I have installed wiper blades and changed light bulbs on vehicles according to maintenance schedules.
 E. I have checked air pressure in tires and inflated them correctly.
 F. I have checked fan belts and hoses and installed new ones correctly.
 G. I have maintained oil and grease levels on vehicles.
 H. I have performed routine service and maintenance on vehicles.
 I. None of the above


5.
Of the following, choose the answers that describe your experience operating motor vehicles through a variety of road, traffic, and weather conditions:
 A. I have safely operated vehicles through heavy traffic flow.
 B. I have safely operated vehicles in unfamiliar territory.
 C. I have safely operated vehicles in hazardous weather.
 D. I have safely operated vehicles while sharing the road with aggressive drivers.
 E. I do not have experience driving in hazardous weather or conditions.


6.
Of the following, choose the answers that describe your experience transporting cargo between multiple locations.
 A. I have driven a motor vehicle with the responsibility of transporting various cargo between multiple government and commercial offices.
 B. I have driven a motor vehicle with the responsibility of transporting passengers to and from off-site locations.
 C. I have transported cargo between multiple locations with supervision.
 D. I have driven a motor vehicle with the responsibility of transporting large or heavy cargo in heavy traffic.
 E. I do not have experience transporting cargo between multiple locations.


7.
Name the items you have experience loading, unloading and transporting to government or commercial offices.
 A. Passengers
 B. Supplies
 C. Furniture
 D. Heavy boxes
 E. None of the above


8.
Choose the answer that best describes your experience loading, arranging, and transporting cargo:
 I have experience loading and arranging cargo.
 I have experience transporting cargo that has already been loaded in a motor vehicle.
 I have assisted others in loading, arranging, and transporting cargo.
 I have loaded, arranged and transported cargo without supervision or assistance.
 I do not have experience loading, arranging, or transporting cargo.


9.
Which of the following laws pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles are you familiar with?
 A. Speed limits
 B. Licensing requirements
 C. Load/weight restrictions
 D. Safety requirements
 E. I do not have knowledge of traffic rules and regulations.


10.
I have experience using the following equipment to move cargo:
 A. Forklift
 B. Manual pallet jack
 C. Electric pallet jack
 D. Stackers
 E. None of the above


11.
Choose the answer that best describes your experience transporting passengers:
 I have experience occasionally transporting passengers to and from off-site locations.
 I have experience safely transporting passengers to appointments or commitments ensuring they arrive on time.
 I have transported passengers to appointments or commitments with a supervisor or other employee.
 I do not have experience transporting passengers to appointments or commitments.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
When transporting cargo/deliveries and/or passengers, I am experienced in accurately completing associated paperwork.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙