Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Community Recreation)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13027246 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Recreation Assistant position at the Community Recreation Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


1.
What is your level of practical work experience in customer service?
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

This position may require for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain the following certification within 90-days of being hired: 

Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and First Aid Certification
Food Handler certification (where food is prepared)
Alcohol safety training (where alcohol is served)

Would you be able to meet these instructions?  

 Yes
 No


3.

Considering the areas of organizing, planning, and administering special events and skill in providing excellent customer service , which level of capability do you possess?

 Entry: Able to assist with event setup and provide basic customer assistance following established guidelines and under supervision.
 Intermediate: Able to plan and execute smaller special events independently, provide excellent customer service, and address common issues proactively.
 Advanced: Able to lead the planning and execution of large-scale special events, develop innovative customer service strategies, and proactively address complex challenges to ensure event success.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.

Do you have and able to maintain a valid driver's license?

 Yes
 No


5.

 

Do you agree to work the hours that will meet the needs of the program to include, nights, holidays, and weekends?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙