Position Title
MACHINIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12892671-AF-26-050 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E3 to E6 in any branch of service and willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 171st Air Refueling Wing
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 171st Air Refueling Wing (This includes 258th ATCS, 146 Weather Flight, 146 ARS, and 147 ARS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training that has provided the candidate with a basic knowledge of machining processes? Do you have the ability to use drill presses, shapers, planers and other types of associated machine tools?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience or training performing the full range of machining operations on most types of conventional or CNC machine tools and their various attachments? Experience or training in planning and lay out work from blueprints, worksheets and other drawings that may have missing or incorrect information. Skill in applying shop mathematics in establishing needed dimensions, such as those required for chasing threads or machining angular surfaces; locating and marking surfaces and angles to be machined. Skill in programming machining operations, setting up and operating CNC machine tools. Knowledge of and ability to apply advanced shop mathematics such as geometric and trigonometric formulas to make computation for laying out work, machining pieces at unusual or compound angles, determining gear ratios pitch, angles and other similar exact or precision dimension.

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No. I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No, I have not.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙