Position Title
SOCIAL WORKER-TITLE 5
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-13044492-AF-26-188 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Sep 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AOC
1.

Are you a military retiree at the rank of major, lieutenant commander, or higher AND receiving military retirement pay?

NOTE: Military retirees at the rank of major, lieutenant commander, or higher are not eligible for preference in appointment unless they are disabled veterans. (This does not apply to Reservists who will not begin drawing military retired pay until age 60.)

 Yes
 No


2.
Use the appropriate question based on AOC (be sure to use the correct branch/terms):

AREA 1 - Are you a current federal employee/technician within Kentucky Air/Army National Guard (T32 and T5, with permanent, conditional or indefinite tenure)?

AREA 2 - Are you a current or former member of the Kentucky Air/Army National Guard?

AREA 3 - Are you a current federal employee (with permanent, conditional or indefinite tenure)?

AREA 4 - Are you a U.S. citizen?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙