Position Title
Barista - Warrior Eatery
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12991027 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
What is your experience with operating espresso machinery?
 I am highly proficient with commercial espresso machines, can calibrate/dial in grinds, troubleshoot equipment, and have trained or led others in making hand-crafted beverages under pressure.
 I can independently operate and clean commercial espresso equipment, consistently sequence multiple made-to-order beverage tasks, and maintain portion quality during rush periods without supervision.
 I have operated commercial espresso equipment in past roles, but I occasionally require assistance with machine calibration, troubleshooting, or handling high-volume rushes.
 I have experience making coffee or espresso at home or in a non-commercial setting, but I will require hands-on training to operate professional commercial machinery.
 I have no experience operating espresso or specialized coffee equipment.


2.
What is your level of experience with handling a register (POS, credit/debit sales, etc.)?
 Expert: I possess extensive knowledge and experience in all aspects of cash handling, including best practices and regulatory compliance.
 Intermediate: I am proficient in most standard cash handling procedures and can work independently.
 Beginner: I have a basic understanding of cash handling and can perform simple tasks under supervision.
 No knowledge in handling a register.


3.
What is your level of knowledge related to food handling?
 I have extensive experience prepping/serving food items, and can train others on safe food handling, cross-contamination prevention, and uniform portioning
 I can independently prepare and serve food/snacks, following safe food handling techniques, maintaining portion control, and managing multiple orders efficiently.
 I have experience handling and serving food and have basic understanding of contamination and sanitation.
 I have prepared food at home and understand basic kitchen cleanliness, but I have never handled or prepared food in a professional environment.
 I have no experience with food handling


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙