Position Title
Physician Assistant Supervisor (Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (Pain))
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12978304-26-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Physician Assistant (Clinical Leader/Administrative Leader), VN-0603-04 - The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS OR PROVIDE THE NECESSARY INFORMATION MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.

To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as additional grade-level qualification requirements as listed in the job announcement. 

Grandfathering Provision: A Physician Assistant employed in VHA in this occupational series that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date (9/27/2020) of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification.

Please choose the best (most appropriate) answer to determine your eligibility for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Physician Assistants must be a graduate of a training program which is accredited by the Accreditation Review Commission on Education of PA (ARC-PA) or one of its predecessor organizations. 

Do you possess either of the following?
master's degree in any discipline
bachelor's degree in any discipline with one year of experience as a PA
 Yes. I am a graduate of an ARC-PA-accredited training program and have a master's degree.
 Yes. I am a graduate of an ARC-PA predecessor organization-accredited training program and have a master's degree.
 Yes. I am a graduate of an ARC-PA-accredited training program and have a bachelor's degree in and one year of experience as a PA.
 Yes. I am a graduate of an ARC-PA predecessor organization-accredited training program, have a bachelor's degree and one year of experience as a PA.
 No; however, I am a current VHA PA who meets Grandfathering Provision.
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received (or are expecting to receive) your PA education.
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Degree Type
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred


3.
Examination: Have you successfully passed the PA National Certifying Exam (PANCE)?
 Yes. I successfully passed the PA National Certifying Exam (PANCE).
 No; however, I am a current VHA PA who meets Grandfathering Provision.
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


3a.
Specify date you successfully passed the PA National Certifying Exam (PANCE)..


4.
Licensure/Registration: Do you currently hold a full and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes. I currently hold a full and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia.
 No; however, I am a current VHA PA who meets Grandfathering Provision.
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


4a.
Provide the following information regarding your PA licensure. If you are not licensed yet, indicate the expected (projected) issuance date.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Initial issuance date
Expiration date


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Experience: PA clinical leaders/administrative leaders require five years of experience which included leadership assignments that involved formulating program objectives and priorities, implementing plans and practices, and interpreting regulatory and organizational guidance to develop and implement policies and/or procedures.

Do you possess this type of experience?
 Yes
 No


5a.
Briefly describe how you meet this type of experience requirement as listed in your CV/Resume (provide dates, if applicable/necessary).
 


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.

Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.

Some helpful tips:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week
Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Current VA Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

Additional Resources:
Obtaining your Transcripts: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ 
How to Build a Resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 
What to Include in my Federal resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙