Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
26-NRLFO-12-12949310-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Accountant, NQ-0510-04, position. Please provide an answer for all questions.


1.
Basic Education Requirements for Accounting 0510 series:
Degree: Bachelor in accounting; or a Bachelor degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
-or
Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or -
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours (may not include Business Law), but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that: (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 Yes, I meet one of the basic requirements listed above.
 No, I do not meet any of the basic requirements listed above and I understand that my application will not be considered further.


2.
To meet the minimum qualification requirements at the NQ-04 level (GS-15), select the option that best describes your experience.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the NQ-03 pay band or GS-14 level as described in the qualification requirements section of the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.


3.
Please identify the position and time period (include the month/year) which reflects this experience.



4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my application not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙