Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13033429-T5-26-590 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
What status/category applicant are you for this advertisement?
 I am CAT 1; Current permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 5 employee of the MT National Guard.
 I am CAT 2; Current permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 32 Employee of the MT National Guard.
 I am CAT 3; Term (Tenure 3) or NTE (Tenure 0) Title 5 Employee of the MT National Guard.
 I am CAT 4; Indefinite (Tenure 3) or NTE (Tenure 0) Title 32 technician of the MT National Guard.
 I am CAT 5; Current or Former military member of the MT National Guard.
 I am CAT 6; Current or Re-employable Federal Employee.
 I do not fall into any of the listed categories


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT:
Must have experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the understanding of the stages required to automate a work process; experience in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems.

AND

Must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below:

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

Do you meet the General Experience Requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12). Must also have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12). Must also have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.


4a.
This is a required field. Please explain your experiences here. You will still be required to list any qualifying experiences on your resume. If this field is blank or missing qualifying information, you may not be considered for interview.


5.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙