Position Title
DEPUTY BASE OPERATIONS MANAGER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-12857269-AR-26-005 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible: I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions at my retained grade, within my local commuting area.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the "Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted or declined a job offer for permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 Yes
 No


Guard Information
1.
Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
*PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 No, this does not apply to me.


3.
Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.


4.
This position requires a passing drug test as a condition of employment.

Are you willing to submit to a drug test?
 Yes
 No


5.
By selecting YES, you are acknowledging that you understand and accept that this is an EXCEPTED SERVICE position with the Indiana National Guard. If selected for the Title 5 position, this is a civilian position and DOES NOT REQUIRE military membership.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment


7.
Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of O5-O6?
 Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above but I have prior service that falls within the ranks above, or I am able to join within the ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.


8.
Are you currently an ON-BOARD Title 32 or Title 5 (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) technician with the Indiana Army National Guard?
 Yes, I am currently an ON-BOARD Title 32 or Title 5 (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) technician with the Indiana Army National Guard.
 No, I am not.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


2.
Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?

Must have experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations. Experience, training, or knowledge overseeing training facilities and complex programs which include mobilization support, property management, and logistics. Experience or knowledge with managing maintenance, repair, and construction of multiple facilities. Experience managing diverse Federal and State funds and directing subordinates on daily tasks and ensuring strict compliance with governing regulations.  Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.  Must have 12 months specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level.


 Yes
 No


Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


3.
Do you possess knowledge of management and organizational principles and practices in managing/directing program planning, development, administration, coordination, execution, and quality control of the programs and facilities, including policy development, project management, total requirements budgeting, contracting, and financial/cost accounting?
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Do you experience appraising the utilization of resources, including manpower and funding, to accomplish state/installation objectives and goals while complying with applicable laws and regulations?
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


5.
Do you possess experience in dealing with problems, requiring significant interpretation and seasoned judgment in modifying and extending guides, techniques, and precedents; in devising terms and conditions of acquisitions and projects; or balancing the application of the guidelines in relation to program or technical needs, business considerations, and the current economic climate?
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
Do you possess the knowledge or ability to manage facets of base operations for a training facility, ensuring 24-hour operational readiness in direct support of national defense initiatives and time-sensitive deployments?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


7.
Do you possess the ability to exercise comprehensive supervisory authority, overseeing subordinate supervisors in all areas of personnel management, from selection and performance evaluation to resolving grievances and ensuring a safe, equitable, and effective work environment?
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙