Position Title
Security Assistant
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-CLD-12913484-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation, see required documents section. If you fail to select at least one eligibility below or you select an eligibility that you do not provide proof of, your application may be marked INELIGIBLE as out of the area of consideration. The full performance level of this position is GS-08.




1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?  Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Security Assistant GS 0086-05 position with the Office of Personnel Management. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Security Assistant GS 0086-05 at the GS-05 grade level.
 I have at least one year of work experience that is equivalent to the GS-4 level in the Federal service that includes providing clerical support to an organization by maintaining files; reviewing and preparing correspondence; using databases; answering and directing telephone calls to the appropriate office; planning and organizing work, maintaining security of sensitive information, reviewing documents for accuracy, and accurately entering information into a database.
 I have 4 years of education above the high school level (must provide transcripts).
 I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and college level education (must provide transcripts).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on performance of one or more of the competencies described for this position? Due weight of this recognition will be given in the evaluation process. You may submit documentation of this recognition.
 Yes
 No


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙