Position Title
Supervisory Industrial Specialist
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POGU-26-12989225-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Camden, AR
 B. Tulsa, OK
 C. Austin, TX
 D. Fort Worth, TX
 E. Houston, TX
 F. San Antonio, TX


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Industrial Specialist position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-03 or GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Planning, directing, advising, managing, and integrating the workload of a diverse group of employees responsible for monitoring complex processes involving Major Defense Acquisitions Programs (ACAT 1) and Major Weapons Systems; Providing oversight to acquisition personnel performing activities such as aircraft engineering, program management, earned value management, software, and manufacturing and production contract surveillance; and Accomplishing the timely delivery of systems, subsystems, and components to major Government buying commands with minimal impact to making decisions that impact cost, schedule, and performance standards.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
How do you most effectively motivate a team facing competing priorities and high workload?

 Set clear priorities, explain mission impact, and provide support/resources.
 Escalate all issues to senior leadership.
 Allow the team to self-manage without direction.
 Tell the team to push through without additional guidance.


3.
Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?

 By maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 By providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 By coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 By not communicating with appropriate executives and partners to ensure policy and procedures are communicated (0)
 By assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts a criteria.


4.
Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial.

 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I do not adapt my communication style to the audience, nor do I maintain positive relationships with external stakeholders. I only communicate with internal stakeholders.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.


5.
How should a supervisor align team performance objectives with evolving agency priorities?

 Maintain prior goals to ensure stability.
 Adjust goals informally without documentation.
 Communicate revised priorities, update performance plans, and monitor progress.
 Wait for annual appraisal cycle.


6.
A team member repeatedly misses deadlines. What is the appropriate next step?

 Wait until formal discipline is required.
 Reassign all work permanently without addressing the cause.
 Ignore the issue and hope performance improves.
 Conduct a documented performance discussion with clear expectations.


7.
A project is behind schedule. What demonstrates accountability?

 Provide leadership an accurate status and recovery plan.
 Assign blame externally.
 Direct overtime without explanation.
 Delay reporting to leadership until impacts become unavoidable.


8.
How should supervisors ensure accountability for critical work?

 Assume experienced staff will self-manage without oversight.
 Rely primarily on verbal confirmation.
 Establish clear ownership, implement review processes and verify completion.
 Only review after problems occur.


9.
When managing limited resources across competing mission requirements, what is the most appropriate supervisory action?

 Distribute resources evenly regardless of priority.
 Prioritize based on mission risk and documented objectives.
 Defer decisions to higher headquarters.
 Address issues only when shortages occur.


10.
A major deliverable from your team was submitted late. Leadership asks what happened. What is the best response?

 Blame the team and state that the delay was outside your control.
 Acknowledge your role, describe immediate corrective steps, and provide context.
 Explain the factors that caused the delay and identify who was responsible.
 Take full ownership as the supervisor, present root-cause findings, outline corrective actions, and describe how you will prevent recurrence.


11.
Your team must adopt a new technology, but several employees lack the necessary skills. How do you proceed?

 Share online resources and hope they review them.
 Conduct a skills assessment, create a structured training plan, provide hands-on practice, track progress, and adjust support as needed.
 Provide hands-on practice opportunities and monitor progress.
 Expect them to learn it on their own time.
 Arrange training sessions and encourage participation.


12.
What is the most appropriate way to support the development, growth and fairness of individual team members and subordinates?

 Keep them in the same role to maintain stability.
 Limit additional responsibility.
 Use them only to train others.
 Provide equitable access to development opportunities based on documented performance, competencies, and organizational needs.


13.
What best promotes continuous development in the workforce?

 Focus only on immediate operational tasks.
 Leave development optional.
 Provide structured learning and time to apply new skills.
 Discourage experimentation.


14.
A recurring problem persists. What should the supervisor do?

 Continue applying short term foxes to keep operations moving.
 Escalate the issue or reassign ownership without analysis.
 Address only the immediate incident and move on.
 Conduct a structured root-cause analysis and implement preventive actions.


15.
You must make a decision with limited information. What is the best approach?

 Use the best available data, evaluate risks, and choose the safest viable option while remaining ready to adjust.
 Make a decision primarily based on past experience or intuition.
 Seek consensus and delay the decision until more certainty is available.
 Postpone the decision until all information is available.


16.
Your team struggles to solve issues independently and frequently escalates minor problems. What is the most effective problem-solving method that you should use?

 Build a problem-solving development program, provide coaching, create practice scenarios, reinforce critical thinking, and empower the team to resolve issues independently.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
 Handle all problems yourself to ensure they’re done correctly.
 Encourage the team to try harder before escalating.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.


17.
policy change creates operational ambiguity for your team. What is the most effective response?

 Continue current practice until directed otherwise.
 Seek clarification, assess operational impact, and provide interim guidance.
 Pause operations.
 Let each team member interpret independently


18.
After a major conflict is resolved, what actions help rebuild long term trust and team cohesion?

 Reinforce shared goals and team identity.
 Conduct follow up check ins to ensure issues remain resolved.
 Avoid discussing the conflict again to prevent reopening wounds.
 Recognize positive collaboration behaviors as they emerge.


19.
How should supervisors manage technical disagreements?

 Minimize communication to avoid friction.
 Encourage open discussion and define escalation paths.
 Avoid direct involvement unless the issue escalates.
 Let the loudest voice decide


20.
If two employees are upset because they believe workload assignments are unfair. What would your response be to these employes?

 Meet with both employees, discuss workload criteria, and adjust assignments transparently.
 Review workload data, involve employees in discussing expectations, adjust assignments, and implement a clear, equitable workload distribution process.
 Tell them, “That’s just how it is” and move on.
 Explain that you’ll try to balance things better next time.


21.
Two high-performing employees have ongoing interpersonal tension affecting productivity. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?

 Separate assignments permanently.
 Address concerns individually and facilitate a mediated discussion.
 Ignore because performance is still acceptable.
 Issue a general reminder about professionalism.


22.
A technical group faces budget reductions while workload increases. Identify the management strategy best addressing this challenge.
 Conduct a value stream mapping exercise to eliminate non-value-added activities and optimize resources.
 Prioritize critical activities and reduce frequency of lower-risk events.
 Request voluntary overtime from current staff members.
 Randomly assign uncompleted tasks to available personnel across different departments.
 None of the above. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


23.
Implementing a new enterprise-wide technical policy requires gaining support from diverse stakeholders. Identify the approach ensuring successful adoption.
 Distribute the policy via email and require read-receipt confirmations.
 Present the finalized policy at an executive meeting for mandatory sign-off.
 Enforce the policy immediately and address complaints during subsequent audits.
 Allow individual departments absolute freedom regarding policy adoption.
 Engage cross-functional leaders early in the draft/implementation phase to incorporate diverse operational perspectives and develop cross functional implementation strategies. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


24.
Resolving a conflict between production schedules and quality surveillance requires understanding specific organizational dynamic. Identify the necessary dynamic.
 Specific internal performance metrics used to evaluate team level performance.
 Historical animosity between specific agency divisions.
 Lunch schedules of the involved personnel.
 Personal relationships between quality inspectors and assembly line workers.
 Competing priorities of mission readiness versus compliance constraints across responsible supplier workload. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


25.
Navigating a complex bureaucracy to expedite a critical deviation/ waiver involves interacting with multiple approval levels. Identify the essential knowledge area.
 Formal chain of command and informal influence networks among key decision-makers.
 Exact formatting requirements for the deviation waiver form.
 Geographic locations of the various approval offices.
 Current political affiliations of agency heads.
 Names of administrative assistants for senior executives. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


26.
Proposing a major change to agency requirements requires identifying potential resistance early. Identify the action ensuring early identification.
 Waiting for complaints to arise after implementation.
 Asking external consultants for predictions regarding internal reactions.
 Conducting a poll among entry-level functional specialists.
 Reviewing suggestion box submissions from the past quarter.
 Analyzing historical responses of different directorates to previous requirements or regulatory modifications. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


27.
Effective cross-CMO collaboration on technical policies/ procedures requires recognizing a specific factor. Identify the critical factor.
 Incompatible software platforms utilized by different departments.
 Differing localized mandates and risk tolerances governing specific group level practices/ procedures.
 Distinct uniform or dress code policies of involved organizations.
 Preferred meeting times of agency directors.
 Varying physical security clearance requirements for building access. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


28.
Briefing senior leadership on a critical supplier issue requires a specific presentation style. Identify the appropriate style.
 Delivering concise, objective facts outlining the failure, the root cause, and immediate corrective actions.
 Providing a detailed, chronological narrative of events leading up to the failure.
 Minimizing the severity of the failure to prevent executive panic.
 Using highly technical jargon to demonstrate deep subject matter expertise.
 Blaming specific individuals by name during the introduction. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


29.
Moderating a contentious meeting between various teams or team members regarding specific supplier or team level performance issues requires specific techniques. Identify the correct technique.
 Ending the meeting abruptly upon hearing raised voices.
 Forcing a vote to decide tolerance limits based on majority rule.
 Siding immediately with quality assurance staff to maintain departmental authority.
 Providing uninterrupted time to complaining parties before discussing technical details.
 Acknowledging opposing perspectives, maintaining focus on data-driven arguments, and guiding the group toward consensus. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


30.
Drafting an internal operation guidelines/ desktop procedures for new technique's requires a specific structural element. Identify the necessary structural element.
 Multiple cross-references to external manuals lacking context inline.
 Vague guidelines allowing individual interpretation of the procedural steps.
 Clear, sequential steps using active verbs and unambiguous technical terminology.
 Lengthy paragraphs explaining the theoretical background of the procedural technique.
 Conversational tone to ensure document approachability for new hires. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


31.
Preparing an executive summary for a comprehensive supplier risk assessment or performance report necessitates focusing on specific information. Identify the required information focus.
 High-level trend analyses, significant systemic risks, and major strategic recommendations.
 List containing minor non-conformances identified during the calendar year.
 Detailed biographies of quality assurance staff members.
 Full reproduction of raw data tables found in the report appendix.
 Colorful charts lacking corresponding explanatory text. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


32.
Issuing a formal corrective action request to a struggling supplier must include specific details. Identify the mandatory details.
 Compliments regarding past performance to soften the negative feedback.
 Threats of immediate contract termination in the opening paragraph.
 General statement of dissatisfaction with recent deliveries.
 Suggestions for specific personnel changes at the supplier facility.
 Precise description of the non-conformance, the violated standard, and a required timeline for resolution. MCSS (multiple choice, single select):


33.
How do you leverage the Defense Priorities and Allocation System (DPAS) to resolve competing demands between different DoD programs?
 When two DoD programs compete for the same contractor resources, I resolve the conflict by advising the contractor to prioritize the program with the highest total dollar value. Since larger contracts represent a greater financial risk to the government, prioritizing them naturally ensures that the taxpayer's money is protected, regardless of the DPAS ratings assigned to the programs.
 I resolve competing demands by first checking the DPAS ratings of both programs. If one program is rated DX (highest national urgency) and the other is rated DO (standard critical program), I instruct the contractor that they are legally required under DPAS regulations to prioritize the DX-rated order. If both programs carry the same rating, I work with the contractor to see if they can adjust their production schedule or add overtime to satisfy both delivery dates without slipping either program.
 I leverage DPAS by immediately issuing a unilateral directive to the contractor, authorizing them to cancel all of their commercial orders and seize raw materials from other private-sector companies. This immediate seizure of commercial assets ensures that both DoD programs receive their necessary supplies instantly, avoiding the need to analyze individual contract ratings or coordinate with headquarters.
 I leverage DPAS by first analyzing the rated orders to determine if there is a conflict in priority levels (DX vs. DO), as a DX-rated order legally takes precedence over a DO-rated order and must be scheduled ahead of it. If both competing DoD programs hold the same DPAS rating (e.g., both are DO), the contractor must fill them in on a first-in, first-out basis based on receipt dates, unless a rescheduled delivery is mutually acceptable. To resolve equal-priority bottlenecks, I perform a capacity and lead-time analysis, then facilitate communication between the competing Program Executive Offices (PEOs). If a collaborative scheduling solution cannot be reached locally, I formally document the bottleneck and submit a request for Special Priorities Assistance (SPA) through the DPAS Officer to the Department of Commerce to obtain an official allocation or directive
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙