Position Title
Addiction Therapist (Master's Level)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12846177-26-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in this Addiction Therapist position at the Gulf Coast VA Health Care System. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY. AT/LMAT candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English?

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION.  Hold a master's degree or higher in drug and alcohol studies or related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university.

Please select the appropriate answer below.
 Yes, I Hold a master’s degree or higher in drug and alcohol studies or related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not qualify and will not be considered for this position.


3.
EDUCATION: INFORMATION:  Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.


3a.
Name of Academic Institution-
City and State-
Month and Year conferred-


4.
LICENSURE. Individuals appointed or reassigned to an LMAT position must possess a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment..

Exception. The Secretary or designee may waive the licensure requirement for selectees who are otherwise qualified, pending state acceptance of completion of state prerequisites at the master's level. Licensures can be waived for three years from the date of employment. This exception is allowed on the condition that non-licensed LMATs appointed on this basis provide care only under the clinical supervision of an LMAT from the designated assignments to provide clinical supervision. Non-licensed LMAT applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements may be appointed as LMATs under the authority of 38 U.S.C.§ 7401(3). This exception applies only at the GS-09 entry grade level and individuals may not be promoted/converted until they obtain the required license. For grades/assignments at or above the full performance level, candidates must be licensed at the master's level.

Please select the appropriate answer below.
 Yes, possess a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. (submit a copy of license with application)
 No, I do not possess a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment, but the Exception applies only at the GS-09 entry grade level and individuals allowed on the condition that non-licensed LMATs appointed on this basis provide care only under the clinical supervision of an LMAT from the designated assignments to provide clinical supervision. Non-licensed LMAT
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation)
 I do not qualify and will not be considered for this position.


5.
LICENSURE INFORMATION: Provide the following information regarding your



5a.
Licensure. Name on License-
Issuing state or territory-
Complete license number-
Expiration date-

If you have been employed by VHA in this occupation and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".If you are not currently licensed, simply note "Not Applicable".


GRADE REQUIREMENTS AND DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements outlined in paragraph 1 of this sub-appendice and paragraph 3 of 11 this standard, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of the candidates:


6.
Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's) GS-09.

Education, License and Experience. The GS-09 grade level is the entry grade level for LMATs who have: Less than one year of experience post licensure;
OR,
LMATs at the master's level who are graduates not yet licensed at the independent practice (Journey) level.

Unlicensed LMATs at the GS-09 grade level must have completed the required education listed in paragraph 1.a. above and are working toward obtaining a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs. (a) Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders and the interrelationship of SUDs. (b) Knowledge of basic recovery programs and resources. (c) Skill in providing individual and group therapy, including using certain SUD Evidenced-Based Therapy (EBTs). (d) Skill in developing and maintaining effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals. (e) Ability to complete the assessment of substance use disorders, treatment/recovery planning and continuing care planning. (f) Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress consistent with VA national policy and within scope of certification and secure appropriate interventions.

Please respond with the appropriate answer below.
 Yes, I meet the requirement for the GS-09 grade level and can demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
 No, I do not meet the requirement for the GS-09 grade level or cannot demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.


7.
Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's) GS-11.
 
Experience. One year of creditable experience comparable to the next lower grade.

 Licensure. Candidates must possess a full, current and unrestricted license in a State for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.

NOTE: Applicants who meet the qualifications requirements for an AT at the full performance level, who have a minimum of one year experience at that level and who have obtained the master's degree and license will be qualified at the GS-11 level.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Skill to independently complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning and continued care planning. (b) Skill to apply the principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in the treatment of individuals with SUDs. 13 (c) Skill to collaborate and consult on medical or other psychiatric disorders as interrelated to SUDs. (d) Ability to apply various community-based recovery programs and resources in a treatment plan.

Please respond with the appropriate answer below,
 Yes, I meet the requirement for the GS-11 grade level and can demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
 No , I do not meet the requirement for the GS-11 grade level and can demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙