Position Title
Pathways Recent Graduates Claims Examiner (Sickness/ Unemployment)
Agency
Railroad Retirement Board
Announcement Number
260008PW-12980425-CS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Please accurately identify your level of experience and demonstrated capability when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Inaccurate or false information may be grounds for not selecting you, withdrawing an offer of employment following acceptance, or for dismissing you from the position after your start date.


For the following question, please select the response that best describes your experience and/or education. You may select only one response. If you feel that your experience exceeds all the descriptions for a particular question, chose the description that is the closest level to the experience that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes the specialized experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-05 Claims Examiner (Sickness/Unemployment).

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience which involved analyzing, explaining, processing, or interpreting claims, benefits, laws, regulations, or detailed technical procedures.
 I have Four (4) years of education above the high school level from an accredited business, secretarial, or technical school; junior college; college; or university.
 I have a Combination of Education and Experience: Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. One full academic year (30 semester hours) beyond the second year equals 6 months of specialized experience. (Transcripts required if using education to qualify.)
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙