Position Title
Logistics Management Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAEnergy-26-12907935-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 16, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense, Department of State, or intelligence community employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include  your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 Yes
 No


11.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Organization, leadership, direction, and coordination of quantitative and qualitative studies and analysis, advising higher leadership of concerns, solutions, and revisions made in regard to logistics and program performance, evaluation of operations plans to determine areas of improvement.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to respond to all questions may result in your disqualification for this position.


2.
When commissioning a new, highly technical study to compare two competing communications systems, which of the following instructions to the research team best demonstrates a comprehensive analytical approach?

 Conduct a qualitative study based on interviews with operators about which user interface they prefer.
 Design a mixed-methods study. Quantify performance metrics under controlled network conditions, but also run qualitative focus groups with operators after a simulated, high-stress field exercise to assess usability, cognitive load, and trust.
 Focus solely on a quantitative analysis of bandwidth, latency, and signal-to-noise ratio. Give me the system with the best numbers.
 Just tell me which system is cheaper. The most important factor is the per-unit cost


3.
During a real-world operation, a cyberattack disrupts the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems of a local utility that powers a critical command and control facility. Power is lost. The facility's backup generators kick in, but they have a limited fuel supply. Which piece of information would be MOST critical for your immediate analysis to provide to the commander?

 A detailed report on the specific malware used in the cyberattack.
 The total number of personnel affected by the power outage at the facility.
 A list of other nearby commercial facilities that were also affected by the utility outage.
 An immediate estimate of the time required to restore the commercial grid versus the "hours-to-empty" calculation for the on-site backup generators, based on their current fuel levels and consumption rate.


4.
While reviewing monthly performance metrics for your region, you notice that the "Order Fulfillment Rate" for packed petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL) has dropped from 98% to 85%. What is the best initial analytical step to determine the impact on your supported units?

 Cross-reference the detailed fulfillment data (if available) against the specific pending orders for your units to identify which critical items (e.g., specific hydraulic fluids, engine oils) are backordered and which units will be affected first.
 Immediately send an alert to all supported units warning them of a critical POL shortage and advising them to ration supplies.
 Disregard the metric, as a 15% drop is likely a statistical anomaly that will correct itself the following month.
 File a high-priority request for an explanation from the DLA Energy commander.


5.
A USSTRATCOM intelligence assessment indicates a growing threat to the primary maritime chokepoint through which 70% of the bulk petroleum for contingency stocks is transported. As the principal Energy Liaison, what is your most important contribution to the agency's planning efforts?

 Recommend that all future contingency operations be planned in regions that do not rely on maritime shipping for fuel.
 Develop a plan in coordination with DLA Energy to increase prepositioned fuel stocks already within the theater and to model the feasibility and timeline of using alternative, longer sea routes or strategic airlift to bypass the threatened chokepoint.
 Calculate the exact number of US Navy warships that would be required to keep the chokepoint open during a conflict.
 Begin tracking the daily market price of crude oil to forecast the financial impact if the chokepoint were to be closed.


6.
USSTRATCOM is executing a real-world global contingency. The agency asks you for a "snapshot of the agency's global bulk fuel posture." Which of the following responses best demonstrates your value as a consultant?

 Providing a raw data file listing the inventory levels of every DLA Energy fuel depot worldwide.
 A statement confirming that DLA Energy has sufficient fuel to meet the global demand for the next 30 days, based on current consumption rates.
 An email connecting the USSTRATCOM J4 directly with the DLA Energy Commander to discuss the issue.
 A summarized dashboard that shows not only the current on-hand inventory levels at key strategic locations but also highlights the status of fuel currently in transit, the operational status of critical infrastructure (pipelines, ports), and any emerging geopolitical issues that could impact future deliveries.


7.
During wartime planning, a scenario requires the rapid deployment of a missile defense battery to a newly established, austere base. The system's radar and launchers require significant electrical power. The base has no existing power infrastructure. What is the most effective deployment option you can advise the agency on, using your agency's resources?

 Plan for your agency to deliver a continuous supply of 55-gallon drums of diesel fuel to power small, locally procured generators.
 Recommend the agency contract directly with a local construction company in the host nation to build a small power plant for the base.
 Advise that your agency can deploy a pre-configured "Power Package," likely consisting of large mobile generators, fuel bladders, and distribution equipment, which can be flown in and made operational within 72 hours to provide scalable, reliable power for the entire battery.
 Suggest that the deployment is not feasible due to the lack of existing power infrastructure.


8.
An OPLAN for a conflict in a developing region states that your agency will support ground forces by utilizing the host nation's commercial pipeline network to move fuel from the port to forward operating bases. What is the most important question to ask when evaluating this part of the plan?

 Does the plan include an energy mission to establish redundant supply lines using road or rail, and a political assessment of the host nation's willingness to grant unconditional access to its infrastructure during a high-stakes conflict?
 Has the agency certified that the host nation's pipeline can handle US-specification military fuels?
 How much will the agency have to pay the host nation for use of their pipeline?
 Is the pipeline buried underground or is it exposed, and what are the security protocols around it?


9.
A contingency plan relies on a single, large Defense Fuel Support Point (DFSP) to supply an entire theater of operations. A war game demonstrates that a single precision strike on this DFSP's pier and pumping infrastructure would halt all fuel imports, effectively paralyzing air and ground operations within 10 days. How would you best resolve this single-point-of-failure limitation?

 Resolve the limitation by requesting the Combatant Commander allocate a permanent air defense artillery brigade to protect the DFSP.
 Resolve the limitation by having DLA Energy model and resource a distributed logistics network. This would include pre-positioning additional fuel stocks at dispersed inland locations, contracting commercial fuel terminals in the region as alternate reception points, and integrating plans for Joint Logistics Over-the-Shore (JLOTS) operations to provide a redundant, port-independent fuel delivery capability.
 Resolve the limitation by directing DLA Energy to "harden" the existing DFSP with reinforced concrete, making it impervious to attack.
 Resolve the limitation by formally documenting that the loss of the DFSP will result in mission failure and advising planners to avoid scenarios where it might be attacked.


10.
A DoD operational plan requires a surge of 5 million gallons of F-76 marine diesel to be delivered to a port in the Western Pacific within 15 days. Your agency's commercial suppliers indicate they cannot meet this timeline, citing "refinery production slate limitations." What does this industry limitation mean?

 The suppliers are refusing to sell fuel to the DoD for political reasons.
 The suppliers' refineries lack the physical storage capacity for 5 million gallons of F-76.
 The suppliers are demanding a higher price for the fuel before they agree to produce it.
 Refineries produce a wide variety of fuels from a barrel of crude oil. They cannot simply decide to produce only F-76; it must be planned as part of a complex production cycle weeks in advance. A sudden, large order disrupts this entire economic and physical process.


11.
When reviewing the annual stock rotation plan for a major naval fuel depot, you notice that a specific tank of F-76 has been designated as "frozen stock" and has not been touched for five years. Why would an overseer question this designation?

 Because F-76 has a very short shelf life and is likely completely unusable after five years.
 Because fuel is a financial asset, and frozen stock represents a poor return on investment for the agency.
 Because even long-lasting fuels require periodic quality surveillance and testing. Leaving stock completely "frozen" increases the risk of discovering a major quality issue only when the fuel is finally needed in a crisis.
 Because the tank could be used to store a different, more urgently needed product.


12.
A shipment of fuel is received at a base, and the invoice is paid. Days later, the inventory manager discovers the fuel was accidentally entered into the accounting system twice, creating a significant "paper" overage. The base's on-hand inventory now appears artificially high, and the system shows no need for replenishment. What is the best approach to correct this?

 To work with the base inventory manager and potentially the system administrators to process a formal inventory adjustment, providing documentation to prove the erroneous entry, in order to align the book inventory with the physical reality and accurately reflect the need for replenishment.
 To take no action, as the inflated inventory number makes the base appear more ready than it is.
 To direct the base to sell the "paper" overage to another nearby base to make a profit.
 To coordinate a payment reversal with DFAS, since the fuel was double-counted.


13.
The "Inventory Status" report for a base shows that 30% of its on-hand fuel is categorized as "restricted" or "suspended" pending quality tests. While the base's total fuel volume is high, its "Available for Issue" inventory is near zero. Which other metric would be most immediately impacted by this situation?

 Transportation Costs.
 Quality of Support.
 Customer Satisfaction.
 Timeliness of Documentation.


14.
Your analysis shows that on-hand fuel reserves for a critical forward operating location are at "10 Days of Supply." How should you articulate this metric in a daily update to the USSTRATCOM J3 (Operations) staff?

 "The forward location has 10 Days of Supply of F-24 remaining."
 “The inventory level at the forward location has reached the 10-day mark, and a replenishment order has been automatically triggered per protocol."
 "We have a potential fuel shortfall at the forward location. The inventory status is RED."
 "Based on current consumption rates, the forward location can sustain its planned operational tempo for the next 10 days before requiring replenishment. All currently scheduled missions are supportable."


15.
You learn that a host nation government has unexpectedly decided to close a major highway for a week-long national holiday. This highway is the primary ground route for fuel trucks supplying a USSTRATCOM-aligned airbase. What is the most effective initial coordination action?

 Wait until the base commander reports a fuel shortage before notifying the USSTRATCOM staff.
 Immediately coordinate with the J2 (Intelligence) to confirm the report and with the J4 (Logistics) to determine the feasibility of using alternate routes or pre-stocking the base before the closure begins.
 Send a general email to all J-codes stating that ground transportation will be impacted in the host nation.
 File a formal complaint with the Department of State regarding the host nation's uncoordinated highway closure.


16.
During a formal update to the Commander and his senior staff, you project a slide showing global fuel reserve levels. The Commander interrupts and asks, "I see a lot of numbers. Just tell me, are we ready?" How should you respond?

 "Commander, in aggregate, our global posture is GREEN. All currently assigned missions are fully supportable, and we have the required reserves to execute our primary contingency plans."
 "Commander, this slide shows the on-hand inventory in barrels for each Defense Fuel Support Point, broken down by product type, compared to the required war reserve levels..."
 "Commander, readiness is a complex issue with many factors, and fuel is only one part of the overall equation for the command."
 “Yes Commander, we are ready. The agency energy enterprise is postured to meet all requirements."


17.
USSTRATCOM has just published a new contingency plan that, while operationally sound, relies on a support concept from your agency that is logistically unfeasible (e.g., assuming a pipeline can be built in 30 days). What is the most effective way to advise the agency Director?

 "Director, we need to inform USSTRATCOM that DLA Energy formally refuses to support this OPLAN as written."
 "Director, USSTRATCOM's new OPLAN is logistically impossible. They have failed to conduct proper joint planning."
 "Director, I advise you to engage the USSTRATCOM Commander directly. Their new OPLAN contains a critical feasibility shortfall. Specifically, their concept of operations requires a support timeline that is not achievable with current resources or physics. We should present two alternative, executable support concepts for their consideration."
 "Director, we should begin investing in new technologies immediately so that we can meet the requirements of this new OPLAN in the future."


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙