Position Title
Machinist
Agency
U.S. Army Communications Electronics Command
Announcement Number
MCGN-26-13043651-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is for 3rd shift. Are you willing and able to work 3rd shift?
 Yes
 No


4.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Machinist position with the Department of the Army.

We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Machinist duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Machinist duties. I am skilled in resolving machining problems during the machining process; performing precision work on parts that present complex configurations and close tolerances between interrelated surfaces setting up and operating conventional and computer numerical control (CNC) machine tools; using a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments; and determining speeds, feeds, and coolants, lubricants, or abrasives to be used. I am skilled in operating computer numerical control (CNC) machines using program tapes and manual data inputs. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Machinist tasks to include setting up and operating conventional and computer numerical control (CNC) machine tools; using a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments; and determining speeds, feeds, and coolants, lubricants, or abrasives to be used. I am skilled in operating computer numerical control (CNC) machines using program tapes and manual data inputs; and using a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Machinist duties to include operating machine tools such as lathes, boring mills, milling machines, grinding machines and operating computer numerical control (CNC) machines to perform specific machining operation in the machining of castings, forgings, or other raw stocks made of various metals, metal alloys, and other materials. I can use a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I am able to perform simple Machinists tasks such as controlling the machine feeds and speeds, changing and using different cutting tools for successive operations, and making minor changes in machine settings to maintain sizes or shape of the workpiece.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙