Position Title
NURSE
Agency
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Announcement Number
CMS-CCSQ-26-13016515-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Jul 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP):
Are you a current federal employee that will be displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
     • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
     • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
     • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
     • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents at the time of application: (1) Documentation showing abolishment of position or separation (i.e., Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), Agency certification that you are in a surplus organization or occupation, Notice that your position is being abolished, Letter stating you are eligible for discontinued service retirement, Specific Reduction-in-Force separation notice, OR Notice of proposed removal because you declined a directed reassignment or transfer of function out of the local commuting area); (2) Your latest performance rating showing a rating of at least "fully successful" (level 3); AND (3) Your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action showing your tenure, position occupied, and duty station.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP):
Are you a current career or career-conditional competitive service employee or a former career competitive service employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
     • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
     • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
     • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
     • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents at the time of application: (1) Proof of Eligibility (Reduction-in-Force separation notice, Notice of proposed removal for failure to relocate, notice of injury compensation termination, OR notice of disability annuity termination); (2) Your latest performance rating showing a rating of at least "fully successful" (level 3); AND (3) Your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, showing your tenure, position occupied, and duty station. NOTE: Your proof of eligibility must be dated within a year of the date of your application in order to meet ICTAP eligibility.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Reemployment Priority List (RPL) for Woodlawn, MD - The RPL is the mechanism the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF) or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former HHS employee who has been separated by RIF or due to a compensable injury? If so, have you met all the following criteria? 

Separated Under RIF:
Registered for the RPL program in same series and grade as the vacancy, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area as the vacancy (Woodlawn, MD), and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent.

Separated Due to a Compensable Injury:
Registered for the RPL program in same series and grade as the vacancy, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area as the vacancy (Woodlawn, MD), and
Must either have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation or have been separated because of a compensable injury or disability, and
Must have fully recovered more than 1 year after compensation began; and
Must have received notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease.

For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B. 

Proof is required:

You must submit the following documentation listed below to support your claim if you were separated due to RIF:
Your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
Your SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of your Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
Your Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice. and
A copy of your latest performance appraisal with final rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.  If a performance appraisal is not available, a copy of your RIF notice showing your last final rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent, or a recent Within Grade Increase SF-50 with a remark indicating fully successful performance.

-OR-

You must submit the following documentation listed below to support your claim if you were separated due to a Compensable Injury:
Your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
Your SF-50, which shows you've been separated, or the SF-50 that shows you accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation.
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease. and
A copy of your latest performance rating of record showing your final rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent, or a recent Within Grade Increase SF-50 with a remark indicating fully successful performance.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


3.
Select the response or responses that best describe how you heard about this position INITIALLY or the VERY FIRST TIME YOU ENCOUNTERED CMS? This question is only designed to assist with recruitment planning efforts.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Handshake
 C. Symplicity
 D. Twitter
 E. YouTube
 F. Job Board (Indeed/Glassdoor/Monster, etc.) – Please specify the Job Board in the text box below.
 G. College/University Event – Please specify the Recruitment Event in the text box below.
 H. Career Fair (Specialty field, Veterans, Individuals with Disabilities, etc.) – Please specify the Career Fair in the text box below.
 I. Professional Organization Job board or event – Please specify the organization in the text box below.
 J. CMS Hosted Webinar – Please specify the Webinar Topic in the text box below.
 K. Friend/Family Member/CMS Employee
 L. CMS Website
 M. USAJOBS or USAJOBS Email Notification


4.
Please provide the specifics about how you heard about this vacancy announcement. For example - where exactly did you hear of this position; which job fair did you interact with CMS; if it was word of mouth, who did you hear it from, etc? Enter N/A if "Not Applicable".


5.
If you are a Federal Civilian employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, Competitive Service
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Competitive Service
 Career Appointment, Excepted Service
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted Service
 Term Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed more than 1 year, not more than 4 years)
 Temporary Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 Other
 Not Applicable


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held on a permanent basis. For example: GS-12. (limit 10 characters). If not applicable, please enter N/A.


7.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis, example: MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY, or to Present. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


8.
Are you a Federal civilian retirement annuitant? If yes, and you are selected for this position, your salary may be reduced by the gross amount of the Federal annuity paid during the period of re-employment. Please click here for more information about retired annuitants.
 Yes
 No


9.
Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? If yes, and you are selected for this position, you must repay the entire (pre-tax) amount of the incentive to the agency which paid the buyout before your first day of work in the new position. Please click here for more information about VSIP.
 A. Yes
 B. No


Conditions of Employment
1.
In accordance with Executive Order (EO) 12964 and the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Federal Drug-Free Workplace Program governed by EO 12564, Federal employees MUST refrain from the use of ALL illegal drugs both on and off duty.

Marijuana use in any form (including medicinal), could deem a person unsuitable for Federal employment. State laws do not supersede Federal law.
Therefore, Federal employees MUST refrain from use of ALL illegal drugs (to include marijuana) on and off duty, even when residing in a state where marijuana use has been legalized for medicinal or recreational purposes.

Do you agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if you are selected for Federal employment?
 Yes, I agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if selected for Federal employment.
 No, I do not agree to refrain from all illegal drug use if selected for Federal employment.


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for applying for the position of Nurse, GS-0610-13, with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. ***Be sure to read the announcement in its entirety for all application requirements. You MUST upload ALL required documents, including your Nursing license or your application will not be considered***


1.
The Nurse occupation has specific educational requirements which apply to all positions. From the options below, select the one response which best describes your educational background.

 I have a graduate or higher level degree; such as, a bachelor’s degree, an associate degree, or a diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. The education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. **If the degree is from a Foreign Nursing School, an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required. (NOTE: TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED BEFORE SELECTION)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
The Nurse occupation has a license requirement which applies to all positions. From the options below, select the one response which best describes your licensure qualification requirements for a Nurse position.

 I have a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. (NOTE: License Is REQUIRED AT THE TIME OF APPLICATION) You may retrieve a copy of your license and upload from https://www.nursys.com/
 I do not possess the license requirements described above.


3.
Select one statement from below that best describes your experience in order to meet the minimum qualification requirements for the position of the Nurse, GS-0610-13.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Government, obtained in either the private or public sector, to include: 1) Leads or conducts quality reviews to evaluate the performance, compliance and effectiveness of health care programs.
 I do not possess the experience described above. COMPETENCY: None


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. COMPETENCY: None


5.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙