Position Title
Advanced Medical Instrument Technician - Vascular
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-13007878-26-SZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Advanced Medical Instrument Technician - Vascular position with the VA. Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position.


All experience must be fully documented on your resume and include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week. Please ensure your resume/application supports the responses you select. 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Proficiency. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
To qualify at the GS-9 level: Do you possess one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level (GS-8) which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and fully meet the KSAs at that level? This would be experience which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to fully perform all vascular ultrasound tests and examinations and to function as a technical director of the vascular laboratory and provide oversight and/or guidance to other technicians.
Knowledge of cross-sectional and longitudinal vascular anatomy in normal and abnormal vessels, anatomical planes and tissue structures, physiologic effects of disease entities that impact the vascular system, signs and symptoms of acute and chronic vascular disease, and the characteristic appearance of aneurysms, pseudoaneurysms, thromboses, stenoses, occlusions, AV fistulae, and morphology of atherosclerotic plaque formulation.
Ability to provide Doppler information of peripheral vessels; demonstrate characteristic differences related to the organs they supply; accurately quantify carotid artery stenoses; and identify and correlate specific waveform analysis, plethysmographic tracings, velocity changes, and pressure gradients characteristic of normal, obstructed, or occluded vessels or grafts.
Ability to perform intracranial (transcranial) vascular examinations.
Ability to operate the instruments to extract the highest quality image utilizing the appropriate transducer frequency, Doppler angle, focal zones, gain, depth, color map, wall filter, and sample volume.
Ability to provide objective data to document progression or regression of disease.

In addition, do you demonstrate the following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):?
Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols, that pertain to vascular ultrasonography. 
*Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.
*Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.
 Yes
 No


3.
Grandfathering Provision. Are you a current VHA Medical Instrument Technician - Vascular using the Grandfathering Provision to meet qualification requirements?

NOTE: A SF-50 dated prior to June 7, 2012 must be provided showing appointment to a Medical Instrument Technician - Vascular position within the VHA. This is in addition to any other SF-50's provided proving current employment or time in position.
 Yes
 Not Applicable


Questions 4 through 6 assess Preferred Experience for this position. Please select the response that best describes your background and credentials. Responses to these questions are used for candidate evaluation purposes only and will NOT screen out or disqualify applicants who meet the basic minimum qualification requirements.


4.
Do you possess active certification as a Registered Vascular Technologist (RVT) through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS) OR Registered vascular specialist (RVS) Certification through Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) or Vascular Sonography certification RT(VS) through the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT)?
 I possess active certification as an RVT (ARDMS) or RVS (CCI) or RT(VS) (ARRT).
 I do not possess active certification as an RVT (ARDMS) or RVS (CCI) or RT(VS) (ARRT).


4a.
Please enter certification information if applicable or enter N/A:


5.
Do you possess experience independently performing specialized vascular duplex examinations, including mesenteric artery duplex, renal artery stenosis and graft surveillance, post-intervention Endovascular Aneurysm Repair (EVAR) surveillance, and temporal artery scans?
 I possess experience independently performing mesenteric, renal, EVAR, and temporal artery duplex examinations as a regular part of my clinical practice.
 I have performed some of these specialized duplex examinations under direct supervision or in a training capacity, but do not perform them independently.
 I do not possess experience performing these specialized vascular duplex examinations.


6.
Do you possess experience independently performing comprehensive non-invasive physiological testing and tissue oxygenation assessments, specifically Segmental Limb Pressures (SLPs), Transcutaneous Oxygen Measurements (TCOMs), and Photoplethysmography (PPGs)?
 I possess experience independently performing all three testing modalities: Segmental Limb Pressures (SLPs), Transcutaneous Oxygen Measurements (TCOMs), and Photoplethysmography (PPGs).
 I possess experience performing some of these non-invasive physiological tests, but lack experience or require direct supervision for others.
 I do not possess experience performing Segmental Limb Pressures (SLPs), Transcutaneous Oxygen Measurements (TCOMs), or Photoplethysmography (PPGs).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙