Position Title
Assistant Supervisor (Offset/Letterpress)
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12895058-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 05, 2026 to Mar 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience or ability to direct the work of others including journeyman presspersons.
 I have experience directing the work of others, in the set-up, operation and adjustment of Offset and/or Large Examining Printing Equipment (LEPE) and tools within prescribed safety and product security requirements.
 I have experience directing the work of others, in the set-up, operation and adjustment of computerized, high-speed, large format offset, intaglio and/or gravure (with bindery adaptation) printing presses and related equipment within prescribed safety and product security requirements.
 I have ability to direct the work of others, in the set-up, operation and adjustment of computerized, high-speed, large format offset, intaglio and/or gravure (with bindery adaptation) printing presses and related equipment within prescribed safety and product security requirements by virtue of my own, journeyman level pressperson experience and knowledge of such equipment.
 I do not have journeyman level experience in the set-up, operation and adjustment of computerized, high-speed, large format offset, intaglio and/or gravure (with bindery adaptation) printing presses and related equipment within prescribed safety and product security requirements.


2.
Please choose the answer that best describes all your journeyman-level pressman experience.
 Offset (Simultan) Printing Experience
 Rotary Letterpress (COPE-LEPE) Experience
 Both Offset and COPE-LEPE Experience
 Private sector printing experience
 None of the above


3.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience in verifying proper press setup and making diagnosis.
 A. I have diagnosed printing equipment problems and taken corrective action to remedy the issue.
 B. I have used hand tools and measuring devices to set up a press for a production job.
 C. I have set up and operated equipment to control quality.
 D. I have performed routine maintenance on press equipment.
 E. None of the above


4.
Please select the response(s) that best describes your experience to work with and effectively communicate with others.
 A. I have persuasively enforced policy and instructions, with a minimum of disputes, grievances or delay in operation.
 B. I have worked on committees, conferences and in other situations involving contact with people.
 C. I have experience exercising tact and diplomacy in ordinary situations.
 D. None of the above


5.
Select one response that describes your experience identifying and organizing relevant information to make an informed decision.
 I do not have experience identifying and organizing information to make decisions.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees identifying and organizing information to make decisions and/or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to guide them in performing this task because of my expertise.
 I have had education or training identifying and organizing information to make decisions but have not performed it on the job.
 I have some experience identifying and organizing information to make decisions.
 I have identified and organized information to make decisions as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


6.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


7.
Select one statement that best describes your experience to think in a critical fashion, proactively predicting and solving potential problems before they occur.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees and/or I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.
 I do not have experience in performing this task.
 I have education or training in performing the task but have not performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task independently as a regular part of my job and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have some experience performing this task.


8.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


9.
Select one statement that best describes your experience providing technical knowledge to assist your team in resolving issues as they arise.
 I have experience providing technical knowledge to assist in resolving issues as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I do not have experience in providing technical knowledge to assist in resolving issues.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees in providing technical knowledge to assist in resolving issues and/or I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.
 I have had education or training in providing technical knowledge to assist in resolving issues but have not performed it on the job.
 I have some experience providing technical knowledge to assist in resolving issues.


10.
Choose all of the computer software packages you have experience using.
 A. MS Word
 B. MS Excel
 C. Power Point
 D. Oracle
 E. None of the above


11.
Choose all of the computer software packages you have experience using.
 A. MS Outlook
 B. FLOWSYS
 C. Serena
 D. None of the above


12.
Select all of the measurement devices & equipment that you have used.
 A. Micrometers
 B. Hand rulers
 C. Acu-Gage
 D. Digi-Scope
 E. None of the above


13.
Select the answer that best describes your experience level with X-Rite Color Management and/or AFX-DataScan.
 I have not had training or experience using this equipment.
 I have had training in the use of this equipment but have not performed it on the job.
 I have operated this equipment while being monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist in setting up this equipment due to my expertise.
 I have operated this equipment task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


14.
Select the statement that best describes your experience in interpreting and following established procedures and leading others in the work unit to do the same.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees interpreting and following established procedures and leading others in the work unit to do the same and/or I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.
 I do not have experience in interpreting and following established procedures and leading others in the work unit to do the same.
 I have been trained in interpreting and following established procedures and leading others in the work unit to do the same but have not performed it on the job.
 I have interpreted and followed established procedures and lead others in the work unit to do the same on the job while monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to assess performance.
 I have interpreted and followed established procedures and lead others in the work unit to do the same independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


15.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


16.
Choose the statement that describes your experience reading manuals to set up all aspects of the press prior to production.
 I do not have experience reading manuals to set up all aspects of the press prior to production.
 I have been trained to read manuals to set up all aspects of the press prior to production but have not performed it on the job.
 I have read manuals to set up all aspects of the press prior to production on the job while monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to assess performance.
 I have read manuals to set up all aspects of the press prior to production independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees in reading manuals to set up all aspects of the press prior to production and/or I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.


17.
As a Supervisor or Lead, you need to verify proper press setup and diagnosis press problems. Please select all of the following tasks you have performed.
 A. Troubleshooting and diagnosing printing equipment problems
 B. Using hand tools and measuring devices to setup a press for a production job
 C. Setup and operation of electronic inspections systems
 D. Routine maintenance on press equipment
 E. None of the above


18.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience resolving issues related to defects identified during inspection.
 I do not have experience resolving issues related to defects identified during inspection.
 I have been trained in resolving issues related to defects identified during inspection but have not performed it on the job.
 I have resolved issues related to defects identified during inspection on the job while monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to assess performance.
 I have resolved issues related to defects identified during inspection independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees in resolving issues related to defects identified during inspections. I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.


19.
Select the statement that best describes your experience in communicating material related issues, both orally and in writing to various representatives within the organization.
 I do not have experience communicating material related issues orally or in writing to various representatives within the organization.
 I have been trained in communicating material related issue both orally and in writing to various representatives within the organization but have not performed it on the job.
 I have experience communicating material related issues both orally and in writing to various representatives within the organization on the job while monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to assess performance.
 I have experience communicating material related issues both orally and in writing to various representatives within the organization independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees in communicating material related issues both orally and in writing to various representatives within the organization. I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.


20.
Select the statement that best describes your experience to identify defects in materials that are directly related to producing work that meets quality standards.
 I do not have experience in performing this task.
 I have been trained in performing the task but have not performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job while monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to assess performance.
 I have performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have led or overseen lower-level employees in this task and/or I am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist in performing the task due to my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙