Position Title
Diagnstc Radiologic Tech
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13054761-26-TW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORTTHE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification. Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?

 YES
 NO, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-10 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 NO


3.
Education. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

 YES
 NO, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-10 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 NO


Technologists working in this special assignment may function as vascular interventional (VI), cardiac interventional (CI) and/or cardiovascular-interventional (CV) technologists who use specialized equipment to perform diagnostic angiographic procedures and complex vascular and nonvascular interventional and therapeutic procedures. This specialty requires additional knowledge of vascular systems and major vessel anatomy. The technologist must be knowledgeable in the specialized equipment employed for digital subtraction systems and interventional procedures. The technologist administers contrast media under the supervision of the staff radiologist and confers with the radiologist to establish requirements regarding contrast agents, vital signs, medications, and physiologic monitoring to perform procedures. IR technologist must be knowledgeable in digital imagining and PACS.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9), which is directly related to the position to be filled? Employees are trained to work in one or more difficult and complex modalities performing procedures related to these modalities as well as performing general diagnostic procedures. At this grade level, the higher-level duties must
consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. The incumbent functions as a lead DRT for a
group of DRTs [at the GS-9 level and below]. The incumbent provides a full range of general radiologic imaging exams, has a broad knowledge of the different modalities within the diagnostic
radiologic area, and is accountable to the next higher-level supervisor.

In addition to the above, your experience, as listed in your resume, you demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the
assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

- Ability to provide feedback to supervisor on technical aspects of work.
- *Ability to resolve informal employee complaints.
- *Ability to monitor and report on the status and progress of work and make adjustments to accomplish the workload in accordance with established procedures.
- Ability to perform general and specialized diagnostic radiologic procedures in advanced levels of complex treatment situations.

 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must clearly demonstrate the required level and length of experience and KSAs to be creditable. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. While we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. It is recommend your resume include the following information for each position listed: Job title and place of employment Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Include series and grade level for any instances of Federal employment.


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Your resume MUST have your License Number(s) and state(s) that issued the license. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer's Name (2.) Employer's City and State (3.) Job title (Federal/Military jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙