Position Title
Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12929830-26-JM Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position with the Veterans Health Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding academic institution.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Month and Year Conferred:
 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification: Are you currently certified in magnetic resonance imaging, by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, (ARRT)(R) (MRI)?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Certification Number:
Expiration date:


4.
GS-10 Experience: At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-09 directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Creditable experience includes: carrying out assigned tasks independently, performing varying assignments including special and complex imaging procedures beyond the full performance level, clinical instruction, and basic QM type duties within the program; ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures; knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers; ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure; knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography; knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions; knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients. The incumbent functions as a lead DRT for a group of DRTs at the GS-9 level and below. The incumbent provides a full range of general radiologic imaging exams, has a broad knowledge of the different modalities within the diagnostic radiologic area, and is accountable to the next higher-level supervisor.

Do you meet this requirement?

Note: This experience must be fully detailed in your resume.
 Yes, I have the required GS-9 level equivalent experience directly related to this position. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume. I further understand that I will be required to provide a narrative response to each KSA if tentatively selected.
 No, I do not have this experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the requirements above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*).

i. Ability to provide feedback to supervisor on technical aspects of work.
ii. *Ability to resolve informal employee complaints.
iii. *Ability to monitor and report on the status and progress of work and make adjustments to accomplish the workload in accordance with established procedures.
iv. Ability to perform general and specialized diagnostic radiologic procedures in advanced levels of complex treatment situations.

Do you meet this requirement? (to be creditable, this must be supported by your application materials)
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙