Position Title
TRAINING SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12908221-AR-26-064 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for Missouri Army National Guard.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Missouri Army National Guard.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level that provided experience developing training plans and exercises; experience managing training programs; experience scheduling training events and conducting trainings; experience developing and organizing instructional materials; knowledge of audio-visual presentations; and the ability to present professional courses and briefings. This specialized experience must also include experience evaluating trends, providing recommendations and experience working with training budgets?
 Yes
 No


2.
In detail, explain your experience reviewing and analyzing regulations, directives and documents of higher, lower and adjacent headquarters to ensure training objectives are identified and met.


3.
In detail, explain your experience providing guidance and assistance to major commands regarding readiness, plans and schedules.


4.
In detail, explain your experience developing surveys and questionnaires to evaluate training effectiveness.


5.
In detail, explain your experience managing Overseas Deployment Training (ODT).


6.
In detail, explain your experience ensuring specialized training requirements are met (medical, aviation and weapons qualifications) to include appropriated funds managements and resourcing training requirements.


7.
In detail, explain your experience managing Physical Training (PT) programs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Do you certify that all your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙