Position Title
Research Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-12961873 MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to May 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


6.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 0408 - Ecology
 C. 0460 - Forestry
 D. 0470 - Soil Science


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a two-year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315.

 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Research Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Research Biologist at the DB-02 (GS 05-11) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Research Ecologist at the DB-02 (GS 05-11) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in biology, or a related field of science underlying ecological research that included at least 30 semester hours in basic and applied biological sciences. These hours included at least 9 semester hours in ecology, and 12 semester hours in physical and mathematical sciences. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Research Forester at the DB-02 (GS 05-11) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in forestry; or a related subject-matter field that included a total of at least 30 semester hours in any combination of biological, physical, or mathematical sciences or engineering, of which at least 24 semester hours of course work were in forestry. My curriculum was sufficiently diversified and included courses in each of the following areas: (1) Management of Renewable Resources -- study of the science and art of managing renewable resources to attain desired results; (2) Forest Biology -- study of the classification, distribution, characteristics, and identification of forest vegetation, and the interrelationships of living organisms to the forest environment; and (3) Forest Resource Measurements and Inventory -- sampling, inventory, measurement, and analysis techniques as applied to a variety of forest resources. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in forestry, or at least 30 semester hours in any combination of biological, physical, or mathematical sciences or engineering, of which at least 24 semester hours were in forestry. My curriculum was sufficiently diversified and included courses in each of the areas described in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Research Soil Scientist at the DB-02 (GS 05-11) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in soil science or a closely related discipline that included 30 semester hours or equivalent in biological, physical, or earth science, with a minimum of 15 semester hours in such subjects as soil genesis, pedology, soil chemistry, soil physics, and soil fertility. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in soil science or a related discipline that included at least 30 semester hours in the biological, physical, or earth sciences, with a minimum of 15 semester hours in such subjects as soil genesis, pedology, soil chemistry, soil physics, and soil fertility, PLUS appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


5.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are preparing for a field assessment of a local marsh with a new summer intern. The intern, who has a general science background but is new to wetland ecology, asks you for a quick overview of what makes up a marsh ecosystem. What is the most appropriate way to describe the key components to them?

 Explain that the ecosystem is defined by the interaction between its living components, such as emergent vegetation, fish, and microbes, and its non-living components, like the saturated soils, water chemistry, and solar energy inputs that drive its functions.
 Describe the most prominent features, focusing on the characteristic plants like cattails and reeds, the shallow water hydrology, and the types of birds and amphibians they are likely to see, explaining how these elements define the habitat.
 List the key living elements, including the various plants and animals, and the key non-living elements, such as the water, soil, and air, to give them a foundational checklist of what to look for during the field assessment.
 Focus the explanation on the hydrology and soil composition, as these non-living factors are the primary drivers that determine which plants and animals can survive in the marsh environment, making them the most critical components.
 Tell them a marsh is primarily a water body, similar to a shallow pond, and its key components are the water quality and the aquatic insects, as these are the base of the food web for the entire ecosystem.


2.
Your team is discussing a proposed dam on a river upstream from a critical wetland habitat you monitor. A senior scientist asks for your initial assessment of potential impacts on the downstream wetland and its riparian zone. How should you respond?

 Explain that the primary impact would be the reduction of water flow, which could lead to the wetland shrinking and riparian vegetation being replaced by species less tolerant of flooding, altering the overall ecosystem structure.
 Focus on the dam acting as a barrier, preventing the migration of fish and other aquatic organisms, which would fragment their populations and significantly alter the food web dynamics within the downstream wetland ecosystem.
 Suggest that the dam would likely improve the downstream environment by trapping pollutants and sediments, leading to clearer water, which would benefit aquatic plants and therefore the entire wetland food web.
 Respond that any impacts would be minimal and temporary, as the wetland's hydrology is primarily controlled by local precipitation and groundwater, not the flow from the upstream river system.
 State that the dam would alter the natural flow regime and trap sediment, likely reducing water availability and nutrient delivery, which could shift plant communities and disrupt habitat for fish and other aquatic species downstream.


3.
While reviewing population data from a wetland study, a junior team member notes that the populations of two frog species seem to negatively affect each other. They ask you whether this interaction is predation or competition. What is the best way to clarify the distinction for them?

 State that you can tell the difference by the outcome; in predation one organism is killed and eaten, but in competition both organisms are simply trying to acquire more resources than the other to survive and reproduce.
 Tell them that the key difference is that predation is a physical interaction between two organisms, whereas competition is a more passive interaction that occurs over time as they both draw from the same pool of resources.
 Respond that the terms are often used interchangeably in ecology because both interactions involve one species gaining an advantage at the expense of another, leading to a decrease in the other's population size.
 Explain that predation is an interaction where one species consumes another, while competition occurs when multiple organisms require the same limited resource, resulting in a negative effect on all parties involved in the struggle.
 Clarify that predation involves a clear predator-prey dynamic, like a heron eating a frog, whereas competition is a struggle between the two frog species for a shared resource like insects or breeding sites.


4.
Your team is planning a preliminary ecological assessment of a site to determine if it has wetland characteristics suitable for a restoration project. You are asked to provide a short list of plant types to look for that would be the strongest indicators of existing or former wetland hydrology. Which group of plants should you prioritize?

 Look for hardy, pioneering species like goldenrods and asters, as their ability to colonize disturbed ground could indicate the transitional zone between upland and potential wetland areas on the property.
 Recommend searching for upland species like oaks and hickories, reasoning that their absence from certain low-lying areas would indirectly prove that those areas are too wet for them and therefore must be wetlands.
 Prioritize obligate wetland species such as cattails, bulrushes, and pickerelweed, as their presence is a very strong indicator that the area is saturated or inundated for long periods during the growing season.
 Focus on identifying facultative wetland trees and shrubs, like red maples and willows, because their established presence can indicate long-term soil saturation patterns that are characteristic of many wetland types.
 Suggest a broad survey of all plant types, including grasses, shrubs, and trees, to create a comprehensive species list from which you can later calculate a wetland prevalence index for the entire plant community.


5.
During a lab meeting, a discussion arises about the relationship between nitrogen-fixing bacteria and the roots of certain wetland plants. An intern asks you to clarify the term "symbiosis" in this context. What is the most accurate and comprehensive explanation?

 Tell them that symbiosis refers to how a single organism adapts its biological processes to live in a challenging environment, such as a plant adapting to waterlogged, low-oxygen soil conditions in a wetland.
 Explain that symbiosis is any type of close and long-term biological interaction between two different species, which can be further classified as mutualistic, commensal, or parasitic depending on the outcome for each organism.
 Describe it as a close relationship where two different species live together, using the bacteria and plant roots as an example of mutualism where both organisms derive a mutual benefit from the interaction.
 State that symbiosis is when two different organisms cooperate for their mutual survival, such as when one organism provides nutrients and the other provides shelter, thereby helping each other thrive in the environment.
 Define it broadly as any situation where the life cycles of two different species are linked or dependent on each other, including predator-prey relationships that evolve over long periods of time.


6.
During a site visit with a local landowner, you identify a large, dense stand of non-native Phragmites in their wetland. The landowner asks why your agency is so concerned about this particular plant. What is the most appropriate explanation of its impact?

 Explain that it aggressively outcompetes native vegetation, creating a monoculture that reduces plant diversity, degrades habitat for fish and wildlife, and can alter the area's hydrology and nutrient cycles.
 Inform them that it forms dense stands that crowd out the native plants that birds and other animals in the wetland rely on for food and nesting, which ultimately lowers the habitat quality of the area.
 State that because Phragmites is not native to the region, it disrupts the natural ecological balance and is therefore considered an undesirable species that needs to be managed or controlled.
 Mention that the main issue is that it is visually unappealing and its dense growth can block access to open water, which can lower the recreational and property value of the wetland for the landowner.
 Reassure them that the plant is not a major concern, as its dense root system is very effective at preventing soil erosion and its tall stalks provide excellent cover for many types of wildlife from predators.


7.
You are assigned to assist a senior scientist in developing a plan for a comprehensive biological inventory of a 50-acre mixed-marsh ecosystem. The goal is to document the flora and fauna. What approach should you suggest to your team lead?

 Suggest establishing several permanent plots to conduct detailed vegetation surveys and using point counts at dawn and dusk to inventory the bird species that are actively using the wetland habitat.
 Recommend conducting a series of meandering walks through the different habitat zones of the wetland, recording all observed plant and animal species to generate a complete species list for the site.
 Propose using existing regional species checklists and field guides to compile a list of the flora and fauna likely to be present, which can then be verified with a brief site walk-through to save time.
 Suggest focusing the inventory efforts exclusively on the fish and waterfowl populations, as these are the most economically and recreationally important species and are good indicators of overall wetland health.
 Propose a stratified sampling plan with specific protocols for inventorying different groups, such as vegetation transects for plants, dip-netting for macroinvertebrates, and acoustic surveys for amphibians.


8.
You are asked to present the findings of your team's recent wetland water quality study to a local community association. The study includes complex data on nutrient loading and dissolved oxygen levels. Most of the audience has no scientific background. What is the best strategy for your presentation?

 Display the primary graphs and charts from the study's report, but take time to carefully explain what each graph shows, what the axes represent, and what the main trends in the data are.
 Provide the audience with a summary of the technical report and present your slides as you would to a scientific audience, but allocate a significant amount of time for a question-and-answer session at the end.
 Simplify the message by stating only the final conclusion, such as "the wetland is healthy," and explain that the detailed scientific data is too complex to be effectively covered in a public meeting.
 Use analogies to explain concepts, like comparing nutrient loading to over-fertilizing a lawn, and focus on the practical implications of the findings for the health of the wetland's fish and plants.
 Begin the presentation by providing simple, clear definitions for each key technical term, then walk through the data, pausing to connect the results back to the overall health of the ecosystem.


9.
You are creating a PowerPoint presentation for an upcoming public meeting to share the results of a year-long ecosystem assessment. To ensure the presentation is effective for a general audience, what design approach should you take for your slides?

 Write detailed, comprehensive text on each slide, essentially mirroring your speaking notes, to ensure that all the important information is captured for audience members who may prefer reading.
 Make the presentation highly visual by using a slideshow of compelling field photographs with no text, planning to verbally narrate the entire story of the project and its findings from start to finish.
 Design each slide around a single key message, using large, high-quality images and simple graphics to illustrate your points, while keeping the amount of text on each slide to an absolute minimum.
 Structure your slides with clear titles and use bullet points to summarize the main findings, ensuring each point is concise and directly supports the slide's topic, perhaps with a supporting chart.
 Create slides that feature the primary data tables and graphs directly from your technical report, so the audience can see the evidence, and use your speaking time to explain what the data means.


10.
Your research team is tasked with developing a monitoring protocol for a large-scale wetland restoration project, and there are differing opinions among team members on the best methodology to use. As a member of the team, what is the most effective action to take during the planning meeting?

 Immediately begin a debate to challenge the methods you disagree with, pointing out their flaws to ensure the team avoids going down an inefficient or scientifically unsound path from the very beginning.
 Propose that the team first clarifies the project's primary objectives and constraints, then has each member outline their suggested approach, followed by a group evaluation of the pros and cons of each option.
 Listen to the various methods suggested by your colleagues, then identify the strongest components of each and propose a blended or hybrid methodology that incorporates the best ideas from the entire team.
 Come to the meeting prepared with a detailed plan based on your own research and experience, present it to the team, and invite them to provide feedback and suggest improvements to your proposed approach.
 Advocate for the approach suggested by the most experienced scientist on the team, as their expertise likely makes their method the most reliable and defensible one for the project's requirements.


11.
You have been tasked with leading a small field effort to collect water samples from a series of ponds for nutrient analysis. This is your first time leading a sampling event. What is the most appropriate first step to take in planning this work?

 Draft a detailed sampling and analysis plan that specifies the study objectives, sampling locations, collection procedures, labeling conventions, and preservation methods, and submit it to your supervisor for review.
 Create a comprehensive list of all necessary field equipment, including sampling devices, bottles, coolers, and safety gear, and then check to ensure everything is available and properly calibrated for use.
 Check the project schedule and weather forecast to identify the best possible days for the field work, then reserve a field vehicle and coordinate logistics with the other team members who will be assisting you.
 Visit the site to scout the ponds and visually identify the most convenient and accessible points for water collection, making notes on which locations will be the easiest to sample from during the field day.
 Ask a more experienced colleague to simply tell you exactly what to do and which steps to follow, since they have led this type of work before and will know the most efficient way to get it done.


12.
In the field, you are using a multi-parameter water quality sonde to measure dissolved oxygen, but the readings are fluctuating wildly and not stabilizing. You have a tight schedule to complete sampling at several locations today. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Record in your field notes that the sonde is malfunctioning, and if your sampling plan includes them, switch to using backup measurement tools, such as chemical titration kits, to complete the work.
 Continue to try and collect readings at the site for an extended period, recording the range of fluctuating values and noting in the logbook that the instrument was unstable and the data may be questionable.
 Pack up the equipment and return to the lab, as valid data cannot be collected with a malfunctioning instrument, and reschedule the field day for after the sonde has been properly repaired and serviced.
 Record the average of the fluctuating numbers as the official measurement, assuming the variations are due to natural variability in the water and that the average represents the true environmental condition.
 Attempt standard field troubleshooting, such as checking the probe connection and cleaning the sensor, and if that fails, try a field recalibration. Document all steps and the final outcome in your field notebook.


13.
You and a colleague are in the field collecting a large number of sediment samples according to a gridded design. A thunderstorm is approaching quickly, and you are rushing to finish. What is the best practice to ensure no samples are mixed up or misidentified under this pressure?

 Place all the samples in a cooler in the precise order they were collected, then take shelter in the field vehicle and apply the pre-printed labels to the jars once you are safely out of the rain.
 Use a permanent marker to write a simple sequential number on each sample jar lid as it's collected, with the plan of creating a key and transcribing the full information onto proper labels back at the lab.
 Agree with your colleague to divide the site, each collecting and remembering the locations for your own set of samples, and then labeling them all from memory at the end of the day to be faster.
 Continue to label each sample container with its unique ID and record it on the data sheet at the exact moment of collection, completing all documentation for one sample before moving to the next location.
 To speed things up, collect samples from a few nearby locations at once, group them together, and then pause to label all of them as a batch, carefully matching them to your field map and notes.


14.
A senior scientist asks you to design a field study to document how the plant community changes along the gradient from the dry upland edge to the inundated center of a marsh. What sampling methodology should you propose?

 Propose doing a timed meander survey, where you walk randomly through the wetland for a set amount of time, making a list of all plant species you can identify to create a general site inventory.
 Suggest that a transect is unnecessary and that you can characterize the gradient by taking a few photos from the edge and using GIS to delineate the different color and texture patterns of the vegetation.
 Propose establishing several line transects perpendicular to the water's edge, then collecting species data within quadrats placed at systematic, predetermined intervals along each transect line.
 Suggest laying out a single, long transect line from the edge to the center and then walking its length, recording the dominant plant species observed within each distinct vegetation zone you pass through.
 Recommend selecting three representative zones—the dry edge, the wet meadow, and the open water center—and conducting a thorough plant inventory within a large plot established in each of those zones.


15.
During a team discussion about recent field data, a junior colleague states, "We observed that algae growth is significantly higher in the ponds closer to the housing development. I believe this is because of fertilizer runoff from the lawns." How should you classify the components of this statement?

 This is an assumption, not based on data, and should be disregarded until you can prove that the homeowners are using fertilizer on their lawns.
 The first part is an observation (higher algae growth near the development), while the second part is a testable hypothesis proposing a cause (fertilizer runoff).
 The entire statement should be treated as a hypothesis because it proposes a cause-and-effect relationship that has not yet been formally tested by the research team.
 The statement is primarily an observation, as it is based on a pattern that was directly seen in the collected data and recorded in the field notes for the project.
 This is a preliminary conclusion that directly links lawn fertilizer to algae growth, which should be included in the final report's summary of findings.


16.
Your team is tasked with assessing threats to a wetland's long-term health. The watershed includes a mix of potential upstream stressors: extensive agricultural areas, a small industrial park, and a rapidly growing suburban development. With limited resources, how should you propose the team prioritize its investigation?

 Recommend first conducting a desktop analysis using GIS and public records to map the watershed, identify potential pollutant pathways, and estimate the relative contribution of each source to guide field sampling.
 Propose starting with the new suburban development, as the recent construction and landscape changes are the most likely to have caused a new and acute impact on the wetland's current condition.
 Suggest focusing initial efforts on the industrial park, as it is a point source with permits that can be reviewed, making it easier to identify and quantify specific contaminants entering the river system.
 Advise the team to concentrate sampling only at the wetland's main inlet, as mixing and dilution in the river make it impossible to trace pollutants back to any specific upstream source.
 Argue for prioritizing the agricultural areas, as non-point source runoff of nutrients and sediment from farms is a widespread and well-documented threat to the water quality of downstream ecosystems.


17.
While reviewing your field notes, you realize that a batch of water samples from two weeks ago was collected at a depth of 0.25 meters, when the approved research protocol specified a depth of 0.5 meters. The analytical results for these samples have already been entered into the project database. What is the most appropriate action to take?

 Make a detailed note of the error in your original field notebook for your own records, but since the deviation was small, leave the data in the main database without a flag to avoid confusion for other users.
 Immediately notify your supervisor of the deviation, document the issue in the project's official records, and flag the affected data points in the database so the team can decide whether to exclude them or use them with a caveat.
 Ignore the minor deviation from the protocol, as bringing it up now would cause extra work and could cast unnecessary doubt on the overall quality and integrity of the entire data collection effort.
 Add a comment to the flagged data points in the project database explaining the depth discrepancy, and then continue with your work, planning to discuss the potential impact of the deviation with the team later.
 Since the deviation was minor, use a simple correction factor to adjust the analytical values to what they likely would have been at the correct depth, and add a note to the file explaining your adjustment.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙