Position Title
Supply Systems Analyst
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
GU-12980922-AR-26-022 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently a member of the Guam National Guard, eligible for employment under Title 32 status?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Title 5 or Title 32 permanent or indefinite employee of the Guam Army National Guard?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently serving in the Guam Army National Guard in the military grade of E-1 through E-7?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level that provided experience in analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques?
 Yes
 No


5.
Applicants may qualify for this position based on education in lieu of specialized experience.
At the GS-07 level, qualifying education must consist of:
1 full year of graduate level education; or
superior academic achievement
At the GS-09 level, qualifying education must consist of:
master's or equivalent graduate degree; or
2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
Do you wish to be considered based on qualifying education in lieu of specialized experience?
 Yes - I will submit transcripts to support qualification.
 No - I qualify based on specialized experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that my resume and all supporting documents accurately describe my qualifications, experience, and training, including applicable dates. I understand that false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙