Position Title
ELECTRONIC ENGINEER
Agency
Air Force Civilian Career Training
Announcement Number
E-27-0855-13081901-GLH
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Sep 30, 2027
Eligibilities
.
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 7
 9
2.
I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
3.
I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 Yes
 No
4.
If you are currently employed in a permanent General Schedule (GS) position in the competitive service or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks, please identify your current grade held in a permanent position with inclusive dates, (e.g. 03 Jan 2015 to present). If your current grade is not your highest grade held, please provide both your current grade (with inclusive dates) and your highest grade held grade with inclusive dates, (e.g. 01 Jan 2014 to 02 Jan 2015). If you have not held a GS position in the last 52 weeks, you may skip this question. (Note: Your SF-50's should support the highest grade held).
5.
Please select up to 10 desired locations from those listed below.
 Maxwell-Gunter AFB, AL
 Eielson AFB, AK
 Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK
 Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 Luke AFB, AZ
 Little Rock AFB, AR
 Beale AFB, CA
 Edwards AFB, CA
 Los Angeles AFB, CA
 March ARB, CA
 Travis AFB, CA
 Vandenberg SFB, CA
 ARPC - Denver, CO
 Buckley SFB, CO
 Peterson SFB, CO
 Schriever SFB, CO
 USAF Academy, CO
 Dover AFB, DE
 Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
 Eglin AFB, FL
 Homestead ARB, FL
 Hurlburt Field, FL
 MacDill AFB, FL
 Patrick SFB, FL
 Tyndall AFB, FL
 Dobbins ARB, GA
 Moody AFB, GA
 Andersen AFB, Guam
 Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, HI
 Mountain Home AFB, ID
 Scott AFB, IL
 Grissom ARB, IN
 McConnell AFB, KS
 Barksdale AFB, LA
 Joint Base Andrews, MD
 Hanscom AFB, MA
 Westover ARB, MA
 Selfridge Air National Guard Base, MI
 Minn-St Paul ARB, MN
 Columbus AFB, MS
 Keesler AFB, MS
 Whiteman AFB, MO
 Malmstrom AFB, MT
 Offutt AFB, NE
 Nellis AFB, NV
 Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ
 Cannon AFB, NM
 Holloman AFB, NM
 Kirtland AFB, NM
 Niagara Falls, NY
 Pope Army Air Field, NC
 Seymour Johnson AFB. NC
 Grand Forks AFB, ND
 Minot AFB, ND
 Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 Youngstown ARS, OH
 Altus AFB, OK
 Tinker AFB, OK
 Vance AFB, OK
 Pittsburgh ARS, PA
 Joint Base Charleston, SC
 Shaw AFB, SC
 Ellsworth AFB, SD
 Arnold AFB, TN
 Air Intel Agency, TX
 Dyess AFB, TX
 Joint Base Ft Sam Houston, TX
 NAS JRB Fort Worth, TX
 Goodfellow AFB, TX
 Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, TX
 Laughlin AFB, TX
 Joint Base San Antonio-Randolph, TX
 Sheppard AFB, TX
 Hill AFB, UT
 Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA
 Fairchild AFB, WA
 Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA
 F.E. Warren AFB, WY
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Conditions of Employment
.
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1.
All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.
2.
I am able and willing to submit to an extensive background investigation to verify my suitability for employment.
 Yes
 No
3.
This position requires a Mobility Agreement. Mobility programs enhance career progression or mission effectiveness. Air Force often needs to assign civilian employees to meet critical manning needs of key managerial positions or to provide employees with exposure to a variety of work experiences. You will be required to sign and abide by the provision of the Mobility Agreement as a condition of employment and refusal to sign will result in denial of appointment. I am able and willing to accept a position requiring my mobility and I am able and willing to sign a Mobility Agreement as a stipulation of employment.
 Yes
 No
4.
I have or will have a bachelor's degree or a master's degree in a field that equips me to perform the work of the position, AND Grade Point Average- 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on my official transcript or as computed based on 4 years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of my curriculum.
 Yes
 No
5.
I am able and willing to submit to pre-employment drug testing (urinalysis) as a condition of employment. This position has been identified as a Test Designated Position (TDP) and I am able and willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and if requested, to submit to random drug testing (urinalysis) on a recurring basis. Further, I am able and willing to sign a statement acknowledging the position occupied is identified as a TDP and understand I am subject to random drug testing as a condition of employment.
 Yes
 No
AFPC-DHA-RECENTGRADS-GS-0855-07-12
.
INSTRUCTIONS: This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience needed to qualify for Electronics Engineer, GS-0855 position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
1.
From the statements below, select the one response that most clearly and accurately describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Basic Qualifications Requirement for the for electronics Engineer, GS-0855. Please select only one response.
 I have earned a professional engineering degree. To be acceptable, the curriculum must: (1) be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I do not meet the requirements listed in A or B, above.
.
INSTRUCTIONS: This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education needed to qualify for this Electronics Engineer, GS-0855 position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS ITEM WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
2.
From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this Electronics Engineer position, GS-0855-09. SELECT ONLY ONE RESPONSE.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service or equivalent in other pay systems that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) to perform successfully the duties of this position, and that is in or related to the position to be filled. Examples of this experience includes: Utilizing electronics engineering principles and concepts and the ability to apply standard engineering practices, methods, and techniques to perform relatively limited engineering assignments. (NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT.)
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree which provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. (NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT).
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience as described in A above; however, I have completed some graduate-level education as described in B above. Therefore, I believe that I can adequately perform the duties of this position based on my combination experience and education. (NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT AND YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT).
 I do not have the level of experience and/or education described in statements A, B, or C above.
.
INSTRUCTIONS: As previously explained, your ratings in this Application Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may result in not selecting you or disciplinary action to include termination (or you may be barred from applying for future Federal vacancies). Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of education and/or experience.
3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating will be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
