Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
IMP-26-12991008-CAWV-TB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current, permanent employee with the BIA Office of Trust Services?  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• for career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Current or Former Federal Employees: Due weight will be given to performance appraisals and awards during the interview/selection process conducted by the hiring manager. If referred, all relevant documents including performance appraisals and awards submitted with your application package will be forwarded to the hiring official for review. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal, please submit an explanation as to why it is unavailable and attach as a document.


2.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP) or equivalent plan to improve my performance.
 Yes, I am on a plan to improve my performance.
 No, I am not on a plan to improve my performance.


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references appropriate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


INSTRUCTIONS: For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Carefully read the following description of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-12 Management Analyst. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector) which includes monitoring or completing the implementation of reporting requirements and metrics; serve as a lead responding to Department or Bureau data calls; conducting management analyses; drafting and recommending metrics using qualitative and quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of program effectiveness and improvement of management processes on both a short and long term basis; and conducting studies to evaluate program effectiveness.
 I do not have the experience as described in the above statement.


2.
Carefully read the following description of experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-13 Management Analyst. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector) which includes providing technical assistance to all levels of management concerning strategic processes and issues; coordinating, overseeing, and monitoring movement of priority actions through all stages; providing planning and analysis; and establishing and/or monitoring a process for data management or system enhancement or design.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY: 
As previously explained, your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your experience. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Certification of Information Accuracy - If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration from this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙