Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12929330-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-09: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-09 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)


NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week.
NOTE: Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-7) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Budget Analyst. Examples of qualifying specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Analyze and evaluate continual changes in program plans and funding and their effect on financial and budget program milestones; and analyze financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. Comprehensive knowledge and understand of government budgetary and accounting principles, theory, and cost allocation as they relate to the facility in order to ensure financial estimates and projections conform to established guidelines. Comprehensive knowledge of disbursing authority procedures as they relate to primary fund allocation and intra-station transfer of fund to enable the incumbent to effectively transfer and allocate funds.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree. OR I have successfully completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. OR I possess a LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I meet this requirement based on combined education and experience. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond 1 full year of graduate level education.
 I have none of the above.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-11: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-11 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)


NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week.
NOTE: Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-9) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Budget Analyst. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Analyze and evaluate continual changes in program plans and funding and their effect on financial and budget program milestones; and analyze financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. Comprehensive knowledge and understand of government budgetary and accounting principles, theory, and cost allocation as they relate to the facility in order to ensure financial estimates and projections conform to established guidelines. Comprehensive knowledge of disbursing authority procedures as they relate to primary fund allocation and intra-station transfer of fund to enable the incumbent to effectively transfer and allocate funds.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. OR a LL.M., if related .
 I meet this requirement based on combined education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education.
 I have none of theses.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙