Position Title
Foreign Service Officer - Auditor (Performance)
Agency
U.S. Agency for International Development
Announcement Number
OIG-26-DE-12953003-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to Jun 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Competitive Service Career or Career-Conditional, USAID employee?

To verify your eligibility as a current USAID Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1); AND,
• box 46 must show US Agency for International Development.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of a disability letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist or any federal, state or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Foreign Service Officer - Auditor (Performance) position with U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Inspector General (OIG). We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
This position is a Testing Designated Position (TDP) subject to the applicant testing and random drug testing. The incumbent of this position must successfully pass a urinalysis screening for illegal drugs prior to appointment and periodically thereafter. Tentatively selected applicants will be required to sign an agreement requiring participation in random drug testing. Are you willing to undergo random urinalysis/drug screening?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a Top Secret/SCI clearance. Are you willing to undergo the necessary preemployment/ checks / investigations to be able to obtain and maintain a Top Secret Clearance/SCI throughout the duration of your Federal Employment?


 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the incumbent to travel to and reside in domestic and overseas locations. Are you willing to travel away from your duty location to visit and reside in domestic and international destinations?

 Yes
 No


4.
To qualify for this position, you must meet one of the basic requirements described below. Please select which answer best describes your education and/or experience for this position.


 I have successfully completed substantial coursework in auditing or accounting.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher degree in a related field such business administration, finance, or public administration; international affairs or policy, international development, regional or area studies, public policy or evaluation, journalism with an international focus, or security policy; or another related degree.
 I have at least 4 years of experience in conducting performance audits.
 I possess a combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional performance auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.
 I do not meet the basic requirement for this position.


5.
FS-06: Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Foreign Service Officer - Auditor (Performance) at the FS-06/GS- 07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the FS-06/GS-07 grade level in the Federal service, as reflected in my resume. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) assisting with reviewing program data and comparing it to policies, procedures, or other program criteria; (2) researching laws, regulations, policies, and procedures; and (3) collecting and analyzing qualitative and quantitative information from various sources to develop conclusions and write informational reports.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


6.
FS-05: Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Foreign Service Officer - Auditor (Performance) at the FS-05/GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the FS-06/GS-08 grade level in the Federal service, as reflected in my resume. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) assisting with reviewing program data and comparing it to policies, procedures, or other program criteria; (2) researching laws, regulations, policies, and procedures; and (3) collecting and analyzing qualitative and quantitative information from various sources to develop conclusions and write informational reports.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


7.
FS-04 Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Foreign Service Officer - Auditor (Performance) at the FS-04/GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the FS-05/GS-09 in the Federal service, as reflected in my resume. Specialized experience includes: (1) participating in the planning, preparation, and execution of performance audits in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards; (2) planning, developing, and/or modifying techniques and methods, conducting analyses, and interpreting the results for an audit; and (3) developing specific and unique audit plans corresponding to operating programs and/or control systems with generalized and/or nonspecific guidelines.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


8.
Select the activities that you have regularly performed. (Check all that apply.)
 A. Researching laws and regulations for projects, to include identifying key resources and program criteria.
 B. Gathering and assessing program data.
 C. Conducting qualitative and/or quantitative analysis of information.
 D. Preparing documentation and workpapers.
 E. Developing conclusions and recommendations.
 F. Writing and/or reviewing sections of draft and final reports
 G. Providing input for an annual work plan based on a review and analysis of various sources of information and research.
 H. None of the above.


9.
Select the statements that describe the roles or functions that you have performed in a team. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have led a team(s) through the planning, execution, and reporting of a project.
 B. I have assigned tasks to project team members.
 C. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and compliance with policies and procedures.
 D. I have provided feedback to team members on the work products and documentation they prepared.
 E. I have reviewed and provided feedback on reports.
 F. I have followed up with team members to ensure milestones were met.
 G. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among team members.
 H. I have kept supervisors regularly apprised of project progress and results.
 I. I have led meetings and briefings with senior management.
 J. None of the above.


10.
Select the methodologies that you have applied in a professional setting. (Check all that apply.)
 A. Data collection instruments, such as structured questionnaires, literature reviews, and document analysis, to gather relevant information.
 B. Interviews of relevant officials.
 C. Survey methodologies to gather relevant information from individuals or organizations.
 D. Qualitative analyses of data and information.
 E. Statistical sampling.
 F. Quantitative analyses of data and information to identify summary statistics, trends, and other features.
 G. Use of software, such as Excel, Tableau, Power BI, or SPSS, to analyze data.
 H. None of the above.


11.
Which auditing methodologies have you applied in a professional setting? (Check all that apply.)


 Data collection instruments, such as structured questionnaires, literature reviews, and document analysis, to gather relevant information.
 Interviews of relevant officials.
 Survey methodologies to gather relevant information from individuals or organizations.
 Qualitative analyses of data and information.
 Statistical sampling.
 Quantitative analyses of data and information to identify summary statistics, trends, and other features.
 Use of software, such as Excel, Tableau, Power BI, or SPSS, to analyze data and complete audit steps.
 None of the above.


12.
Select the one statement that best Identifies the highest level of experience that you have researching and applying laws, regulations, and/or policies.
 I have experience researching applicable laws, regulations, and policies from a variety of sources. My experience includes assimilating, summarizing, and applying the results.
 I have experience assisting others with researching applicable laws, regulations, and policies from a variety of sources. My experience includes assimilating and summarizing data.
 I have experience participating in assignments or projects, either individually or in groups, at the college or graduate level that involved researching laws, regulations, and policies and assimilating and summarizing data.
 I have completed at least one college or graduate level course addressing the research and application of laws, regulations, and policies.
 I do not have experience with any of the above.


13.
Select the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience communicating with various groups or individuals within an office/entity to obtain necessary information.
 I am normally the person who is contacted to assist others in the performance of this task because of my expertise and/or I have supervised the performance of this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job duties and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task has been monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have had training or instruction on performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task.


14.
Select the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience briefing supervisors or stakeholders regularly about the progress and results of a project.
 I am normally the person who is contacted to assist others in the performance of this task because of my expertise and/or I have supervised the performance of this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job duties and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task has been monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have had training or instruction on performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task


15.
Which statement best describes your education and/or experience drafting audit findings and recommendations?

 A. I am normally the person who is contacted to assist others in the performance of this task because of my expertise and/or I have supervised the performance of this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job duties and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task has been monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had training or instruction on performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task.


16.
Select the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience reviewing and analyzing information to assist managers and teams in defining project objectives, scope, and methodology.
 I am normally the person who is contacted to assist others in the performance of this task because of my expertise and/or I have supervised the performance of this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job duties and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task has been monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have had training or instruction on performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task.


17.
Select the statement(s) that describe your experience communicating information. (Check all that apply.)
 A. I have orally justified controversial decisions, findings, conclusions, or recommendations.
 B. I have delivered formal presentations on audit plans, status, and results.
 C. I have persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to accept and implement audit recommendations.
 D. I have participated in meetings to discuss audit plans, present findings and recommendations, and resolve audit problems.
 E. I have used audit results to provide advice to managers on revised program operations, financial policies, and regulatory requirements to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
 F. I have recommended remedial action to correct existing or potential problems.
 G. None of the above.


18.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Applicants will be required to certify that they are using their own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). To reduce the burden on candidates, the responses cannot exceed 200 words per question.


19.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experienc


20.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


21.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


22.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙