Position Title
Pipefitter
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12897940-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 16, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


3.
This position requires the incumbent to complete training as prescribed in Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, 19 10, for OSHA standards for general industry standards as they pertain to Asbestos, PPE and Hazardous Material Handling within 1 year after assignment to these duties and will attend annual refresher training as required. Are you willing to meet this Condition of Employment?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a State issued Class T certification for Water Collection & Distribution within 1 year of assignment and attend annual refresher training as required. Are you willing to meet this Condition of Employment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Pipefitter position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Pipefitter duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Pipefitter duties such as installing, replacing, or repairing various pipes, shut-off valves, joints, unions, flanges, safety valves, ceiling or wall radiators, and other fixtures. I am skilled in setting, adjusting die to cutter or threader, measuring, cutting, and threading lengths of pipe. Removing, assembling, laying, or hanging pipe, marking, cutting or drilling holes in walls or floors. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range Pipefitter duties such as installing, replacing, or repairing various pipes, shut-off valves, joints, unions, flanges, safety valves, ceiling or wall radiators, and other fixtures. I am skilled in setting, adjusting die to cutter or threader, measuring, cutting, and threading lengths of pipe. Removing, assembling, laying, or hanging pipe, marking, cutting or drilling holes in walls or floors. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Pipefitter duties such as installing, replacing, repairing various pipes, shut-off valves, joints, unions, flanges, and safety valves. I can adjust die to cutter or threader, measure, cut, and thread lengths of pipe. Remove, assemble, lay, or hang pipe. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Pipefitter duties such as cutting, installing, replacing and repairing various pipes.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙