Position Title
Communications Specialist
Agency
Executive Director, Office of Acquisition, Logistics and Construction
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12926730-26-HV Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who:

• formerly occupied a career or career conditional position at the VA within the preceding two years before applying for reemployment at VA; AND,
• voluntarily departed such position, or was subject to a reduction in force, and had a satisfactory performance record while occupying such position; AND,
• since departing VA has maintained licensing requirements, related to the position, if any, and gained skills, knowledge, or other factors related to the position; AND,
• possesses at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position sought?

Appointment under this authority is exempt from competitive examining procedures and Veteran's preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in P.L. 115-46, VA Choice and Quality Employment Act of 2017, section 204.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a student and recent graduate of a qualifying educational institution who is:

(1) employed in a qualifying internship or fellowship program at the Department of Veterans Affairs; or
(2) employed in the Department of Veterans Affairs in a volunteer capacity and who are performing substantive duties comparable to those of individuals in an internship or fellowship program and who meet the required number of hours for conversion; or
(3) employed in the Department of Veterans Affairs under a contract or agreement with an external nonprofit organization and who are performing substantive duties comparable to those of individuals in an internship or fellowship program; or
(4) in receipt of Post 9/11 Educational Assistance under chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code (U.S.C.); 


Appointment under this authority is subject to Veteran's preference requirements.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in P.L. 115-46, VA Choice and Quality Employment Act of 2017, section 206. Such documentation may include:

Education - a copy of your latest transcript; statement from the institution's registrar, dean, or other appropriate official; or equivalent documentation.
Employment/Volunteerism - a copy of your Standard Form 50, letter from employer, non-profit agency, etc.
Educational Benefits - a copy of the Post 9/11 Educational Assistance benefit award letter, letter of completion of the Chapter 33 program, etc.

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


7.
Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:
complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an oversea area; AND,
receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating: AND,
return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you the spouse of a current or former member of the Armed Forces? In accordance with revised 5 U.S.C. 3330d(b), the head of an agency may now appoint noncompetitively: the spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty, the spouse of a 100 percent disabled member of the armed forces, or the spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces.

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty.
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
Based on Service Member's Death
As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

To verify your eligibility, submit the following applicable documents:

Documentation verifying marriage: (i.e., marriage license, certificate or other government issued document certifying marriage to your military spouse or veteran.)
A copy of your spouses active-duty military orders.
DD-214: Certificate of release or discharge from active duty (Military spouses of 100% disabled separated or retired veterans and widows or widowers, who are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
DD 1300: Report of Casualty (Military spouses who are widows and widowers, and are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
Veterans Affairs Benefit Documentation of Deceased or Disabled Veteran. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Military Spouses resources

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


10.
Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?

-OR-

Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?

-OR-

Are you a current or former limited non-career appointee with the Foreign Service and have at least 48 months of continuous service, a performance rating of satisfactory or better, and if a former employee, no more than a one year break in service since your qualifying appointment?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service in an agency covered by an Interchange Agreement with at least one year of service in that position?  

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


15.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, certifying your documented disability and eligibility under Schedule A.

 Yes
 No


16.
Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field box 24. is 1 or 2); AND, 
your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field box 34. is 1).
highest grade previously held (Grade or Level field box 18.)
 Yes
 No


17.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


18.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


19.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the assessment, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience for the GS-13 level of this position: Applicants must have one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-12 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to:
Conduct strategic communications planning and evaluating integrated communication strategies.
Develop and manage tactical communications and responses to Congressional and stakeholder inquiries.
Serve as a program manager for communications related contracts ensuring adherence to scope, schedule and budget.
Plan, facilitate, and execute in-person and/or virtual events including conferences, webinars and outreach engagements.
Conduct cost-benefit and impact analyses to implement data-driven improvements to outreach and engagement strategies.
Coordinate communications across all platforms ensuring consistency, timeliness, and federal compliance with Section 508.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirement as stated above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For a GS-13 position, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 level. If your most recent non-award SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional non-award SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

I understand that I must provide SF-50(s) - Notification of Personnel Action, to verify my eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement and to verify that I possess the time-in-grade requirements for the position. The following information is provided to assist applicants in the submission of appropriate SF-50s to verify eligibility and time-in-grade requirements:

To verify your eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement, you must provide your most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee.

An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must also be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as outlined in the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

An award SF-50 does not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's to document time-in-grade include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
ATTENTION: You may need to submit more than one SF-50 if we cannot verify that you meet time-in-grade by your most recent SF-50. For example, if your most recent SF-50 is a General Adjustment, we need your most recent SF-50 dated 01/11/2026 and another SF-50 to verify time-in-grade. Examples of SF-50s for time-in-grade verification include your last within-grade increase or promotion to highest grade held. A promotion SF-50 shows when you started the grade level and a within-grade increase verifies that you were at that grade level for at least one year. Failure to provide your most recent SF-50 dated within one year of the closing date and other SF-50s to verify time-in-grade will result in you being disqualified. We cannot verify time-in-grade based on the grade and step you are currently on alone.
 Yes, I meet the Time-in-Grade requirement.
 No, I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement.
 This restriction does not apply to me because I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or I am seeking a non-competitive appointment such as Schedule A, or 30% or more disabled veteran appointment.


RESUME REMINDER - Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Select the best answer for each question based on your job knowledge and experience. There is only one correct answer per question. Please provide an answer to every question.


1.
OSDBU social media engagement rates show a 30% drop over the past 6 months. What is your best first action?
 Meet with program leads to gather qualitative input and align social media messaging with current priorities.
 Increase posting frequency and introduce new content formats, e.g. short videos, graphics, to quickly re-engage audiences.
 Review engagement data across channels and identify patterns by audience segment before recommending targeted adjustments.
 Shift focus to the highest-performing platform and reduce effort on lower-performing channels.
 Request leadership direction before making changes to ensure alignment.


2.
You are drafting a response to a Congressional inquiry with a 24-hour deadline. What approach best demonstrates strong communication skills?
 Draft a response quickly using available information and refine after submission if needed.
 Coordinate with Public Affairs to lead the response and provide minimal input.
 Wait for leadership to draft the response.
 Draft a concise, fact-checked response aligned to VA style, validate key points with SMEs, and route for expedited leadership clearance.
 Compile a comprehensive response including all background details.


3.
A virtual webinar has 800 registrants. Two hours before start time, the platform fails. What is your best course of action?
 Delay the event by 30-60 minutes to allow time to troubleshoot the platform.
 Immediately activate a pre-identified backup platform, notify registrants with updated access instructions, coordinate with IT and speakers to transition.
 Continue troubleshooting while informing attendees that updates will follow.
 Reschedule the event for a later date to ensure a smooth experience.
 Move forward with a limited version of the event using available functionality.


4.
A small business owner emails stating they do not understand OSDBU contracting resources. What is the most effective response?
 Send links to key webpages and recommend reviewing available materials.
 Refer them to another office that handles contracting inquiries.
 Send links to key webpages and recommend reviewing available materials.
 Provide a tailored response summarizing relevant resources and offer follow-up support or office hours.
 Provide a general overview of OSDBU programs without customization.


5.
Multiple urgent communication requests arrive simultaneously. What is the most appropriate action?
 Address requests in the order received to ensure fairness.
 Elevate all priorities to leadership for direction.
 Prioritize based on mission impact, deadline sensitivity, and stakeholder visibility; communicate timelines and adjust as needed.
 Focus first on the most visible request and defer others.
 Complete the quickest requests first to reduce workload.


6.
You discover that a PDF scheduled for public release is not Section 508 compliant. What should you do?
 Release the document and update it later to meet compliance standards.
 Remove non-compliant elements and publish a simplified version quickly.
 Ask IT to correct the issue after publication.
 Delay release without explanation until compliance is achieved.
 Immediately coordinate remediation to ensure accessibility compliance and inform stakeholders of adjusted timeline if needed.


7.
Website traffic analytics show high page visits but low time-on-page for contracting guidance materials. What is the best interpretation?
 Users are quickly finding the information they need and leaving efficiently.
 The content may not be meeting user needs or is difficult to navigate; conduct usability review and stakeholder testing.
 Increase promotion to drive more traffic to the page.
 Reduce content volume to simplifying messaging immediately.
 Maintain current approach as traffic levels are strong.


8.
You are representing OSDBU at an interagency meeting and are asked about a policy still under internal review. What should you do?
 Share your understanding of likely outcomes based on internal discussions.
 Defer the question and suggest following up later without content.
 Provide a high-level answer and clarify that details may change.
 Provide approved information only and note that final guidance will be shared once cleared.
 Offer to coordinate with leadership and provide a formal response after the meeting.


9.
A contractor misses two deliverable deadlines, impacting on a major outreach campaign. What is your best action?
 Reassign the work internally to maintain timelines and address performance later.
 Escalate immediately to terminate the contract.
 Document performance concerns, meet with contractor to review expectations, and coordinate corrective actions with the COR.
 Adjust timelines to accommodate the contractor’s delays.
 Address concerns informally without documentation to preserve the relationship.


10.
Leadership asks for talking points for a high-visibility event in 3 hours. What is the best approach?
 Reuse prior talking points and make minor updates.
 Draft concise, audience-centered talking points aligned to current strategic priorities and verify key facts before submission.
 Provide high-level bullets without verification to meet the deadline.
 Wait for leadership to clarify expectations before drafting.
 Develop a detailed narrative speech to ensure completeness.


11.
After a major outreach campaign, leadership asks how you will measure effectiveness. What is the strongest response?
 Estimate overall success based on stakeholder feedback.
 Report on outputs such as number of emails sent and events conducted.
 Focus on attendance numbers as the primary indicator.
 Conduct post-event surveys, analyze engagement metrics, compare outcomes to established objectives, and recommend adjustments.
 Provide a summary of activities completed during the campaign.


12.
An incorrect statistic was published on the OSDBU website. What should you do?
 Wait to see if the error is noticed before taking action.
 Immediately correct the information, document the error, notify leadership, and implement quality control safeguards.
 Remove the content until a corrected version is ready.
 Attribute the issue to the content contributor and move forward.
 Update the content quietly without notifying stakeholders.


13.
You identify a repetitive manual reporting process that could be automated. What should you do?
 Continue the manual process to avoid disruption.
 Propose an automation solution supported by cost-benefit analysis and implementation plan.
 Begin automating the process independently to demonstrate efficiency gains.
 Revisit the idea in the next fiscal year.
 Assign the task to the junior staff to manage workload.


14.
An important initiative must reach VA offices, federal partners, and small businesses. What is the best strategy?
 Send a single standardized message to all stakeholders.
 Focus on one primary channel to maintain consistency.
 Conduct a webinar as the primary communication method.
 Develop audience-specific messaging deployed across multiple channels with tailored calls to action.
 Rely on partner organizations to disseminate information.


15.
You are finalizing event logistics when leadership requests an urgent executive briefing. What is the best response?
 Pause event planning to focus entirely on the briefing.
 Inform leadership you are unavailable due to event priorities.
 Submit partial briefing materials to meet the deadline.
 Continue event planning and address the briefing later.
 Assess deadlines, delegate appropriate event tasks, and prioritize development of the executive briefing while maintaining oversight of both deliverables.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙