Position Title
Student Trainee (Health Insurance)
Agency
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Announcement Number
HHS-CMS-IN-26-12913823 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Pathways Interns:
Are you a current student that has been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate?   For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. 
 
To verify your eligibility and qualifications, you must submit the following at the time of application: Proof of current student status by submitting an unofficial transcript from the educational institution you are attending attesting to your possession of the required education. Your unofficial transcript must reflect: (1) current overall grade point average (GPA); (2) enrollment status; (3) major; AND (4) the number of credits for each course. 

NOTE: If you are currently enrolled as a student and have previously completed Degrees (e.g., enrolled in a Master's program and have completed a Bachelors degree), you must submit an unofficial transcript in addition to proof of your current student status at the time of application that reflects: (1) overall grade point average (GPA); (2) Degree Type (e.g., Bachelor's, Master's, etc.) and Degree Major (e.g., Accounting, Human Resources, etc.); AND (3) the date your Degree was conferred.

NOTE: If you are a veteran, in addition to your transcripts, you must also submit at the time of application a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service), or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 
NOTE: You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Bethesda, MD
 C. Woodlawn, MD


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


3.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


4.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


5.
Select the response or responses that best describe how you heard about this position INITIALLY or the VERY FIRST TIME YOU ENCOUNTERED CMS? This question is only designed to assist with recruitment planning efforts.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Handshake
 C. Symplicity
 D. Twitter
 E. YouTube
 F. Job Board (Indeed/Glassdoor/Monster, etc.) – Please specify the Job Board in the text box below.
 G. College/University Event – Please specify the Recruitment Event in the text box below.
 H. Career Fair (Specialty field, Veterans, Individuals with Disabilities, etc.) – Please specify the Career Fair in the text box below.
 I. Professional Organization Job board or event – Please specify the organization in the text box below.
 J. CMS Hosted Webinar – Please specify the Webinar Topic in the text box below.
 K. Friend/Family Member/CMS Employee
 L. CMS Website
 M. USAJOBS or USAJOBS Email Notification


6.
Please provide the specifics about how you heard about this vacancy announcement. For example - where exactly did you hear of this position; which job fair did you interact with CMS; if it was word of mouth, who did you hear it from, etc? Enter N/A if "Not Applicable".


7.
Please enter the type of degree(s)/certificate(s) you have received or will receive and the applicable graduation date(s).


8.
Do you possess a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher on an unweighted 4.0 scale? NOTE: You must provide documentation at the time of application to support your answer. Please see required documents listed in the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
In accordance with Executive Order (EO) 12964 and the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Federal Drug-Free Workplace Program governed by EO 12564, Federal employees MUST refrain from the use of ALL illegal drugs both on and off duty.

Marijuana use in any form (including medicinal), could deem a person unsuitable for Federal employment. State laws do not supersede Federal law.
Therefore, Federal employees MUST refrain from use of ALL illegal drugs (to include marijuana) on and off duty, even when residing in a state where marijuana use has been legalized for medicinal or recreational purposes.

Do you agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if you are selected for Federal employment?
 Yes, I agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if selected for Federal employment.
 No, I do not agree to refrain from all illegal drug use if selected for Federal employment.


Merit Hiring Plan Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for applying for the position of Student Trainee (Health Insurance), GS-0199-05/07, with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one answer that best describes your level of education qualification at the GS-05.
 I have completed a Bachelor’s degree or equivalent degree, OR 4 full academic years of education above high school. Four full academic years above high school is defined as 120 credits or 180 quarter hours. (Note: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 None of the above.


2.
Select the one answer that best describes your level of education qualification at the GS-07.
 Completion of 1 full academic year of graduate-level education. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered as satisfying the 1 year of full-time study requirement. OR eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) Provision AND completion of a Bachelor’s Degree. SAA is defined as meeting one of the following: 1) a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher based on a 4.0 scale as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of curriculum; 2) a 3.5 GPA or higher based on a 4.0 scale as computed based on the required courses completed in a major field of study, or the required courses completed in the major field during the final two years of curriculum; 3) class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; OR 4) membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 None of the above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙