Position Title
Deputy Chief Information Officer, Development & Operations Services
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-DTS-12854588 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 27, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you: 

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 10% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 10% or more (**TP or 5 point veterans please do not answer 'yes' to this question.**)

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current employee of the AO or the Federal Judiciary?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former Federal employee?

All applicants outside of the AO must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) to verify current or former Federal employment status.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Deputy CIO position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions.

WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


1.
This vacancy announcement is open to applicants who live in the Washington, DC commuting area and/or current federal judiciary employees (AO or U.S. Courts) nationwide. From the descriptions below, select how you meet this requirement.
 I currently live in the Washington, DC commuting area.
 I am a current federal judiciary employee (AO or U.S. Courts).
 None of the above. I do not meet the area of consideration requirement.


2.
Applicants must have at least one full year (52 weeks) (preferably 10 years) of specialized experience equivalent to the SES/GS-15/JSP-15/CL 31/ PB-2F level which is in, or directly related to, the line of work of this position. Specialized experience is demonstrated experience in IT operations, overseeing enterprise-class programs in a complex, regulated environment (federal, financial, or healthcare sectors preferred).
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-15/JSP-15/CL 31, or equivalent level which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


3.
If A is selected above, a narrative statement must submitted in the space provided below describing your experience in IT operations, overseeing enterprise-class programs in a complex, regulated environment. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 2,000 words or less.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Which level description best describes your experience supervising IT professionals and overseeing enterprise-class programs across a broad geography?

 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


A narrative response for each of the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) is MANDATORY and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application.


Please describe your progressive, executive-level experience in information technology and enterprise architecture issues, processes, policies, standards, techniques, models, artifacts, and methodologies and the ability to apply these, as required, to formulate and advance the definition and documentation of an agency- wide enterprise architecture. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please describe your experience developing a vision and strategy for a large information technology organization and aligning budget and implementation plans to that strategy. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please describe your developing and implementing strategic thinking processes in an evolving information technology infrastructure environment. This includes providing advice and input to decision-makers, identifying and implementing information technology best practices, and developing, building, and maintaining a state-of-the-art information technology system. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please describe your executive-level interpersonal skills in communicating, negotiating, and persuading others to build consensus and facilitate "win-win" situations. This includes experience in innovation, re-engineering, collaboration, and building coalitions to respond to customer needs and management issues and the demonstrated ability to present complex technical issues in clear, concise terms. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


A narrative response for each of the following Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) is MANDATORY. Exception: applicants currently serving in an AOES and Court Unit Executive positions or under a career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointment, eligible for reinstatement into SES, or have successfully completed a SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM are not required to submit a narrative response for the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). All other applicants must submit responses to the ECQs.


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING CHANGE. This core qualification involves experience developing and implementing an organizational vision, which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors. The incumbent must be able to develop new insights into situations, question conventional approaches, encourage new ideas and innovations, and design and implement new or cutting-edge programs or processes. The incumbent must also be able to think strategically, formulate objectives and priorities, and implement plans consistent with the long-term interests of the organization in a global environment while capitalizing on opportunities, managing risks, and overcoming obstacles. (Key Competencies: Creativity and Innovation, Continual Learning, External Awareness, Flexibility, Resilience, Strategic Thinking, Vision) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING PEOPLE. This core qualification involves experience designing and implementing strategies that maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, including adherence to EEO guidelines. This includes fostering a work environment where individual differences are valued, managed, and leveraged to achieve, through teamwork, the vision and mission of the organization. The incumbent should be able to develop others to perform and contribute to the organization by providing ongoing feedback and providing opportunities to learn through formal and informal methods. This includes taking a long-term view and building a shared vision with others, acting as a catalyst for organizational change, and influencing others to translate vision into action. (Key Competencies: Organizational Awareness, Interpersonal Skills, Integrity/Honesty, Conflict Management, Team Building, Developing Others) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your BUSINESS ACUMEN. This core qualification involves experience building and managing a workforce based on organizational goals and standing needs. It also involves ensuring employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded, and taking action to address performance plans. The incumbent should have experience managing a multi-sector workforce and a variety of work situations, and developing and managing budgets and contracts. This includes keeping up to date on technological developments, making effective use of technology to achieve results, and ensuring technology system access and security. (Key Competencies: Financial Management, Human Resources Management, Technology Management, Procurement Management) Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience with RESULTS-DRIVEN skills. This core qualification involves experience stressing accountability and continuous improvement, making timely and effective decisions, and producing results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. The incumbent should have the requisite technical knowledge to identify and pursue appropriate outcomes, as well as practical experience in anticipating and meeting the needs of both internal and external customers, delivering high-quality products and services, and resolving issues and problems. (Key Competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness, Entrepreneurship, Problem Solving, Technical Credibility) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience BUILDING COALITIONS/COMMUNICATION. This core qualification involves experience developing networks, building alliances, and collaborating across boundaries to build strategic relationships and achieve common goals. This core qualification also involves identifying the internal and external politics impacting the work of the organization. The incumbent should have experience persuading others, building consensus through give and take, and gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. (Key Competencies: Influencing/Negotiating, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Partnering) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


5.
Applicants who meet the specialized experience requirements also will be assessed on Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). Each of the MTQ must be addressed in your resume, and a separate response to each ECQ is mandatory and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application. Please limit your response to two pages for each MTQ and ECQ.
 A. Yes, I have addressed each MTQ in my resume, and each ECQ and specialized experience with a narrative response in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 B. No, I did not address each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document. I have held or amcurrently in an AOES/SES position, have held an AOES/SES position or have successfully completed an SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM. I have addressed each of the MTQs in aseparate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 C. No, I did not address each MTQ, ECQ, or specialized experience statement with a narrative response in a separate document. I understand this will result in my ineligibility for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient) for each narrative question could result in non-consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙