Position Title
Control & Instrumentation Mechanic Supv II
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVK-26-13059407-IMP-NAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) Employee (Promotional):

Are you a current career/career-conditional Bureau of Reclamation employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current Bureau of Reclamation employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a lower grade level than the position being announced or lower than the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) Current Bureau of Reclamation employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a pay rate that is below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current Bureau of Reclamation employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current Bureau of Reclamation employee in the competitive service who is applying for a promotional opportunity as outlined above?

 Yes
 No


3.
Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)

To claim non-competitive eligibility as a current career or career-conditional Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same (or higher grade level) with the same (or higher promotion potential) as the position being announced.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same (or higher) rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current Bureau of Reclamation employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current Bureau of Reclamation employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


8.
Are you including a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and/or a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years?

Important Note: Please submit 1) a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and 2) a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years. Any performance appraisal/evaluation and award documentation you provide will be forwarded to the selecting official. The selecting official will review this documentation and give it due weight consideration during the overall selection process. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation, please submit a statement as to why it is not available. Please indicate if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


9.
If you did not include a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and a list of any awards, please provide a reason why they were not included.

Important Note: Please submit 1) a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and 2) a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years. Any performance appraisal/evaluation and award documentation you provide will be forwarded to the selecting official. The selecting official will review this documentation and give it due weight consideration during the overall selection process. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation, please submit a statement as to why it is not available. Please indicate if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level.


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Control and Instrumentation Mechanic Supervisor II position with the Bureau of Reclamation. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a journeyman level Control and Instrumentation (C&I) Mechanic without more than normal supervision.
 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task, but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have experience in an industrial setting which demonstrates my skill to perform work on electronic equipment which involved, installing, testing, maintaining, repairing and/or troubleshooting of electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, radio communications, programmable logic controllers, relaying and metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment, with no more than normal supervision.
 I have experience working in a powerplant (other than a hydroelectric plant) or large industrial plant, which demonstrates my skill to perform complex work on electronic equipment which includes, installation, testing, maintenance, repair and troubleshooting of electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, radio communications, programmable logic controllers, relaying and metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment, with limited or no supervision.
 I have experience working in a hydroelectric powerplant which demonstrates my skill to independently handle complex problems on electronic equipment which includes, independently installing, maintaining, testing, repairing and troubleshooting electronic equipment such as SCADA systems, radio communications, programmable logic controllers, relaying and metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment.


2.
Select the response that best reflects the number of employees you have led or supervised.
 20 or more
 10-19
 1-10
 None of the above.


3.
Select the one response that represents the apprenticeship or technical degree program you have completed in a trade or craft directly related to the position to be filled.
 I have completed a formal apprenticeship program (approximately 8,000 hours) recognized by the Department of Labor. The program was comprised of systematic on the job training supplemented with classroom instruction and correspondence courses at progressively increased levels of both practical and theoretical complexity.
 I have completed a technical degree program from an accredited college or vocational technical school (two-year program or 60 credit units minimum) in a trade or craft that included courses on theoretical principles and practical workshop experience.
 I have completed an employer or military sponsored technical training program comprised of progressively increased levels of on-the job training, formal classroom or correspondence coursework and I have applied these skills in the positions I have held.
 I have participated in a formal apprenticeship or technical training program but have yet to complete it. E. I have completed a formal apprenticeship program or a technical training program in a trade or craft not related to the position being filled.
 None of the above.


4.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience, education, or training in troubleshooting and diagnosing technical problems of electronic/electrical equipment installed in a hydroelectric powerplant, large steam or nuclear powerplant.
 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task, but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks and have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level experience performing these tasks, which were a central or a major part of my job. I have routinely performed and have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.


5.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience, in troubleshooting and repairing electronic-electrical equipment associated with a powerplant or industrial facility; repairing most if not all of the following: pumps, electrical control systems, remote indications, gate controls, valve controls, and power systems.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks and have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level experience performing these tasks and these tasks were a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed and have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
 None of the Above


6.
Select the response that best describes your highest skill level in troubleshooting electronic equipment problems with test equipment.
 I have some experience with simple troubleshooting but would need help or close supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting simple problems with normal supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting to diagnose routine common and simple problems with normal or minimal supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks in a commercial/industrial environment with minimal supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with minimal or no supervision in a hydroelectric, nuclear, or steam powerplant.
 None of the above.


7.
Select the electrical theories and practices you have experience applying in a work environment:
 A. Ohm's Law
 B. Series and Parallel Circuits
 C. Power Analysis (such as 3 phase power, power factor, and load calculations)
 D. Transformer Theory
 E. Alternating Current Theory
 F. Direct Current Theory
 G. None of the above Y/N


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Have you utilized the National Electric Code (NEC) in performance of journeyman-level duties?
 Yes
 No


9.
Select the electrical test equipment you have operated or used in a powerplant or commercial/industrial work environment.
Multi-meter
Clamp-on ammeters
Infrared gun or camera
Doble
AC and DC High Potential (Hi-Pot) test equipment
Oscilloscopes
Breaker timing tester
Signal generator
Fiber optical test equipment (fault locating, certification, losses, etc.)
Frequency counters
Insulation tester
Logic analyzer
Phase Shifter
Spectrum Analyzer
Power Quality Analyzer
Protective relaying test set
Transducers
None of the above


10.
Select the computer software programs you routinely use to accomplish your work.
 Doble Test Programs (any version)
 SEL Protective Relay Test Programs (any version)
 Advanced Visual Test Software (AVTS) Protective Relay Test Programs (e.g., RTS, Pulse Master, Protest, Omicron, Manta)
 Documenting Instrumentation Calibration Programs (e.g., AMS, DPC, TransCal, Cornerstone)
 None of the above


11.
Select the electrical and electronic equipment you have maintained in a powerplant or commercial/industrial or powerplant work environment.
 A. Alarm systems (Annunciator boards and controls)
 B. Generator controls and protection
 C. Electrical control circuits
 D. Circuit breakers (greater than 100 kV)
 E. Circuit breakers (less than 100 kV but greater than 1.0 kV)
 F. Electro-mechanical or digital governors
 G. AC and DC Motors and controls
 H. Metering equipment
 I. Rectifiers
 J. Programmable logic control (PLC) equipment
 K. Capacitors and Inductors
 L. Potential and current transformers
 M. DC battery systems (including charging equipment)
 N. AC UPS systems
 O. Commercial/Industrial control wiring
 P. None of the above


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


12.
Select the response that best reflects your experience using computerized relay test equipment.
 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


13.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.
 I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant, and verified the clearance boundary.
 I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5 MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.


14.
From the following list, select all of the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures that you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment.
 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (HECP)
 C. Confined Space
 D. Hazwopper and Safety Data Sheets (SDS)
 E. Personal Fall Protection
 F. Workplace Safety and Health Standards
 G. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA), including National Electric Code
 H. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
 I. Emergency Communications Systems
 J. Electrical Safety
 K. None of the above


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


15.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of skill in troubleshooting electronic equipment problems with instruments in a multi-unit system or particular subsystem.
 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


16.
Which of the following activities have you performed which require you to read and interpret drawings, manufacturer's instructions and maintenance manuals.
 A. I have experience fabricating parts using blueprints or drawings.
 B. I have experience performing major repairs on solid state electronic instruments or any type of electro/mechanical equipment utilizing manufacturer's drawings and instructions.
 C. I have experience using construction or electrical drawings, or manufacturer's instructions.
 D. I have technical coursework on blueprint reading, drafting, etc.
 E. I have used manufacturer's instructions to develop specifications for the acquisition of equipment or spare parts.
 F. I have used equipment maintenance manuals to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for electrical and/or electronic equipment.
 G. I have used complex wiring diagrams and schematic drawings to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on electrical and/or electronic equipment.
 H. I have used manufacturer's instructions to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on electrical and/or electronic equipment.
 I. None of the above MCSS:


17.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of skill using electrical and electronic wiring diagrams.
 I have used these diagrams but would need help interpreting them or close supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to perform simple and common tasks with normal supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose routine simple and common tasks with limited supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with normal supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with no supervision and have used these diagrams to instruct others.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙