Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
327-2026-FF-129698882-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-In-Grade requirement. For current federal employees: To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). You must provide a copy of your most recent SF-50 that indicates proof of status, and shows Time in Grade (for example, you were a career or career-conditional employee) and identifies your position title, series, grade, step, salary, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit any SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time-in-grade.


Merit Promotion Documentation Reminder - You must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education, you must submit a copy of your transcript(s) with your application.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Louisville, KY VBA Regional Office employee?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


2.
For GS-11: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your Time-In-Grade:

 I have at least one year Time-In-Grade in a position at the GS-9 level or I am a GS-11.
 This restriction applies to me, and I do not meet the Time-In-Grade requirements.


Specialized Experience, Education or Combination: This section includes questions about the Specialized Experience, education or combination for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the Specialized Experience for a Management Analyst GS-0343-11. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, Specialized Experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Read all responses before making your selection. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. If using education to qualify, you MUST submit an official or unofficial transcript. From the responses below, select ONE response that best describes how you met the basic requirements for this position. Note: Experience/Education MUST be substantiated in your resume or transcripts. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for Management Analyst GS-11 work.

 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-09, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: - Maintaining an annual budget ensuring all appropriate reporting requirements are completed timely and within budget allotment - Completing all administrative and personnel actions to support resource allocation model and maintaining all required personnel information necessary for recruitment retention and off-boarding. - Ensuring appropriate system access levels are obtained, maintained per agency requirements, and removed as required. - Analyze daily operations for a business line and provide recommendations and analysis for operational improvement and support. - Presenting regular briefings to management and leadership on budget, administrative actions, systems, and operational support.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education described in "B", but I have a combination of the type of experience described in "A" and education described in "B.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙