Position Title
SUPERVISORY AIRCRAFT PILOT (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12968874-AR-26-172 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with membership in the Tennessee Army National Guard?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3). For Lateral requests blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts and have a minimum of one-year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have three years' working experience in civilian aviation programs; or military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve component); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities?  Qualification competencies are determined by three factors; The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and the degree of hazard.  Do you have experience in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following main-frame/military aircraft:  Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA);  experience and ability to train and instruct others in the piloting of a specified main-frame military aircraft, Experience in reading and applying mission tasks, intelligence reports, and weather information; experience in reading and applying mission tasks, intelligence reports, and weather information; experience in supervising and conducting mission planning, mission preparations, filing flight plans, and conducting crew briefings; experience in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning; experience in operating aircraft controls and equipment; experience in performing and supervising the work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling; search and rescue operations; and surveillance and reconnaissance missions; experience in conducting and supervising crew member training on simple to complex mission specific tasks; experience in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and briefing commanders; experience in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures, and mission tactics; experience in planning and preparing for missions; and, experience in piloting and instructing others in piloting specific air-frame/military aircraft; experience in various piloting administrative tasks performed in support of Army or Air National Guard aviation programs; experience in aviation unit quality control management programs; experience in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of the Air Force, National Guard Bureau, and Occupational Safety and Health Administration directives; experience in applying directives, regulations, accident reports, safety data, and local operating conditions to determine unit safety program requirements.; experience in flying operations and coordinating with appropriate agencies to ensure compliance with all applicable safety regulations and programs; experience in one or more missions such as, air-to-air; air- to-ground; mortar-to-arm escort; surveillance; reconnaissance; surface attack; killer-scout; target illumination; or laser targeting.; experience in traditional "stick and rudder" type controls for piloting aircraft direction, altitude, and speed; experience in using aircraft instrumentation and aircraft mounted video cameras; experience in visual flight-rule type flying and aircraft instrument flying.; experience in flying simulated "real world" combat and non-combat missions and terrain.; experience in planning, scheduling, and conducting training flights through Federal Aviation Administration controlled national airspace; experience in applying operational directives, training directives, instructions, standard operating procedures, and special instructions of National Guard Bureau, United States Army or United States Air Force, and gaining commands.; experience in working independently to plan and perform work assignments.; experience in completing safe and efficient mission accomplishments through the use of Operational Risk Management.; experience in performing aviation duties such as, cancelling flying activities; diverting aircraft; dictating mission requirements; approving specific activities; coordinating for airport or airspace utilization with FAA; and directing emergency actions that involved unit support agencies.; experience in using applicable Army or Air Force aviation regulations, policies, requirements and standards, skills and practices; and, the application of instructional techniques to the training of other pilots in the Army National Guard flying facilities or Air National Guard wings.; experience in conducting particular combat or non-combat training missions and flying specific main-frame aircraft in combat tactics, flying in mountainous terrain, performing tactical remote site evaluations, performing landings on remote sites, providing ground and flight training, and conducting night-vision operations or instructions; experience in standardization and evaluation programs, written ground examinations, emergency procedures, and aircrew performance standards in accordance with applicable directives and Federal Aviation Administration certification requirements; experience in reviewing and complying with applicable service flight publications and directives for accuracy and currency; experience on weaponry and combat or non-combat tactics for applicable military aircraft; experience with wartime and peacetime contingency plans and supplements used for unit mobilizations, deployments, strange field operations, or troop missions and redeployments; experience in piloting and instructing in accordance with applicable Army or A i r Force aviation regulations, policies, requirements, standards, skills and practices; experience in performing instructional techniques to train other pilots assigned to the Army National Guard flying units or assigned to the Air National Guard flying units; experience in conducting upgrade training for aircrew members from the Army National Guard, Air National Guard, or from other active components; experience in providing proficiency training for qualified aircrew personnel.  Knowledge of full-cycle theory, skill in conducting formal classroom instruction, and skill in actual flight practice are required; experience in performing training activities, as related to a particular mission and specific main-frame aircraft to include combat and non-combat tactics; experience in flying mountainous terrains, performing tactical remote site evaluations, performing landings on remote sites, providing ground and flight training, or conducting night-vision operations and instruction; experience in complying with standardization and evaluation programs, written ground examinations, emergency procedures, and evaluations; experience in aircrew performance standards, in accordance with applicable directives and Federal Aviation Administration certifications, is required; experience with weaponry and tactics for applicable military aircraft; experience in completing aircrew proficiency and competency evaluations; experience in other military components' intelligence programs and services and/or National Guard intelligence programs; experience in comprehending intelligence reports concerning current threats and countermeasures; experience in establishing detailed scenarios to provide realistic and effective aircrew training; experience in commanding and executing unit comprehensive annual training plans to ensure accomplishment of all required aircrew training; experience in executing flight schedules and flying hour programs; and analyzing post-mission debriefings to ensure accomplishment of assigned training events; experience in coordinating annual, monthly, and/or daily operational requirements with unit commanders, Federal Aviation Administration, and other supporting agencies; experience in maintaining detailed wartime or peacetime contingency plans and supplements for unit deployment, strange field operations/employment, and redeployment?



 Yes
 No


3.
How do you balance the requirement for mission accomplishment with the welfare and safety of your subordinates?



4.
How do you identify which junior pilots are ready for track-specific roles and how do you manage their progression?



5.
Describe your role in the Aviation Safety Program.



5a.
How do you ensure that “Safety of Flight” (SOF) messages are disseminated and acted upon immediately?
 


6.
Describe your experience managing the integration of full-time support (Technicians/AGR) with M-Day/Traditional Guard personnel during drill weekends.



7.
A senior leader requests a flight that technically meets the regulations but violates the spirit of 'training intent.' How do you handle this request?



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙