Position Title
Electrical Engineer
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12883511-NE-OE-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Pathways Recent Graduate Candidate- Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree, due to military service obligation, have up to six years after degree completion to apply.)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-07 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the education and degree requirements for this GS-07 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 EDUCATION: A 4-year bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Qualifications and 1year of Post Graduate work. Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 My degree and education do not match the choice above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-07 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-07 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-05 in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: Experience analyzing, evaluating, developing and integrating detailed construction and installation plans. Experience developing procurement documentation for various projects. Experience reviewing technical work such as maintenance requirements, specifications, designs, etc.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙