Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician - Diagnostic Ultrasound
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12964229-26-TW Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Medical Instrument Technician (Diagnostic Ultrasound/Breast Imaging) vacancy with the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G27, requires that applicants meet the following basic requirements.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS:

The following are the basic requirements for appointment as a Medical Instrument Technician (Diagnostic Ultrasound/Breast Imaging) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Education.

There are no specific educational requirements for this occupation. Education may be substituted for experience only at the GS-4 and GS-5 levels. See the grade requirements part of this standard for information regarding educational substitutions


Licensure or Certification.

Licensure or Certification is not required for this occupation; however, it is strongly desirable at GS-6 or above as evidence of possession of the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities. For certain functional areas at the higher levels or supervisory assignments, specific certifications appropriate to the specialty are indicated in this standard under "Titles and Certification/Registrations".


Physical Requirements.

The incumbent will be required to do the following:
A. Position requires long periods of standing and walking, some bending, lifting, and carrying of moderately heavy items.
B. Requires considerable effort and working in awkward positions.
C. Ability to reach above shoulder required.
D. Both hands and use of fingers required.
E. Must be able to lift, carry and move heavy equipment/patients routinely


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency.

Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.


Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS:

Title and Certification:

Diagnostic Ultrasound Technicians operate diagnostic ultrasonic scanning equipment to produce cross sectional and two-dimensional pictures of internal organs and body structures used to diagnose diseases and other medical conditions. Registration is offered by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) or by the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers (ARDMS). Candidate with Breast registry is preferred or will be required to obtain the registry within one year.


GRADE DETERMINATIONS:

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the criteria discussed in the applicable headings, or that defined in the appendices, must be met when determining the grade of candidates.

Education/Training. To be creditable education must have been gained in an accredited Community College, College, or University.

(1) Training: Completion of appropriate training such as in-service training programs, on the job training, training acquired while in the Armed Forces, government sponsored developmental training programs, and/or training under physicians certified in the functional area will be allowed on a month-for-month basis through the GS-5 level.

(2) Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs. Specialized developmental experience obtained under supervision of appropriately certified individuals may be credited at higher levels and is addressed in individual appendices.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Medical Instrument Technician (Diagnostic Ultrasound/Breast Imaging) - GS-9.

In addition to the core competencies defined at the GS-8 full performance level, positions at this grade may be lead, supervisory, or non-supervisory with specialized advanced knowledge and assignments.

(a) Experience.

At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. This would be specialized experience which demonstrates possession of the knowledge required in order to provide all aspects of diagnostic ultrasonography services.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.

KSAs 1, 2, and 3 are appropriate for all positions at this level. KSAs 4 and 5 are to be used in accordance with their appropriateness for the specific assignment.

1.  Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols that pertain to diagnostic ultrasonography.
*2. Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
3. Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.
*4. Ability to manage and supervise employees.
*5. Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.

Do you meet the above requirements for the GS-09 Medical Instrument Technician - Diagnostic Ultrasound/Breast Imaging position?

(c) Certification.

Registration by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) or by the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers (ARDMS) is highly desirable. Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are also desirable.

(d) Assignments.

For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.

1. Special Assignments.

Non-supervisory diagnostic ultrasound technicians may have assignments that because of their nature substantially exceed the full performance level. The Professional Standards Board will review proposed non-supervisory special assignments for the GS-9 level and make a determination regarding their appropriateness. These assignments are expected to be relatively few in number and must represent substantial additional responsibility over the full performance level.

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


3.
Core competencies defined at the GS-8 full performance level

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

1. Ability to perform diagnostic ultrasound examination on multiple areas of the body, including, but not limited to, the abdomen, pelvis, transvaginal, chest, small parts, thyroid, breast, and scrotum.
2. Ability to perform vascular studies such as vertebral, renal artery, aortic aneurysm, portal[1]systemic shunts, etc.
3. Ability to assist radiologists with biopsy procedures determining the location, depth, and required needle angle for the lesion to be sampled.
4. Ability to assist in surgical procedures and fluid aspirations.

(c) Certification. Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are desirable.

(d) Assignment.
This represents the full performance level for medical instrument technician (diagnostic ultrasound). At this level the technician is required to perform a full range of procedures including special complicated examinations for which there are no standard instructions or procedures. They perform independent portable ultrasound examinations in the intensive care units, emergency room, surgery, and throughout the Medical Center when required. They also work independently on evenings, nights, and weekend tours of duty as scheduled and/or when on call.

Do you meet the Core competencies listed above at the GS-08 level above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙