Position Title
ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-261012-12927184-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC, WG-2610-12, positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your ability to perform the duties of this position, ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC, WG-2610-12, without more than normal supervision. (For a complete description of the required duties, see the DUTIES section of this announcement).
 I do not have the experience or the ability to do this line of work.
 I have vocational training or I have completed an apprenticeship in this line of work.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC, WG-2610-12, under close supervision. I have limited experience in: installing, rebuilding, overhauling, troubleshooting, repairing, modifying, calibrating, aligning, and maintaining integrated electronic systems.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC, WG-2610-12, under limited supervision. I have the experience and ability to install, rebuild, overhaul, troubleshoot, repair, modify, calibrate, align, and maintain integrated electronic systems; analyze indications obtained during operation, relate them to the technical data available on the individual subsystems and the various data and function exchanges between the subsystems. On routine assignments, I perform work independently.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC, WG-2610-12, and I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise and ability to install, rebuild, overhaul, troubleshoot, repair, modify, calibrate, align, and maintain integrated electronic systems; analyze indications obtained during operation, relate them to the technical data available on the individual subsystems and the various data and function exchanges between the subsystems; apply technical data and equipment specifications to determine the impact that equipment modifications or substitutions will have upon total system operation and on the various maintenance and alignment procedures. I am considered an expert in this field.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.


2.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙