Position Title
Supervisory Veterans Service Representative (Coach)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-12953679-26-TK Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Buffalo Regional Office of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee of the Buffalo Regional Office of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) as described above or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am a current permanent Buffalo Regional Office VBA employee and will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my status.
 No, I am not a current permanent Buffalo Regional Office VBA employee.


TIME IN GRADE: As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. For the GS-13 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 level


2.
Have you held a GS-12 position (or higher) for 1 year?

 Yes, I have held a GS-12 position (or higher) for 1 year.
 No, I have not held a GS-12 position (or higher) for 1 year.


To qualify at the GS-13 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service.  Specialized experience is defined as performance of technical assignments affecting the entire field of VA's Compensation and Pension (C&P) Benefits Programs. These assignments could require interpretation of the full range of Federal, state, local laws and regulations, C&P laws and regulations, or include precedent opinions of the Court of Appeals for Veterans' Claims and authoritative opinions of the General Counsel.
Examples of specialized experience would typically include:
Performing the duties of an Assistant Coach and assisting Coaches in their responsibilities on a daily basis.
Ensuring that the teams' qualify, and timeliness of service meets performance indicator goals.
Responsible for the cost-effective use of resources to accomplish the teams' assigned outcomes.


3.
Do you posses the required 1 year of specialized experience required for this position?

 Yes, I do possess the required 1 year of specialize experience listed in this announcement.
 No, I do not possess the required 1 year of specialized experience listed in this announcement.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this application questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙