Position Title
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE TECHNICIAN (FISH)
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYP-26-13040089-DE-DSG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


Merit Hiring Bundle
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options. Transcripts are required to qualify using education or a combination of specialized experience and education.


Minimum Qualifications GS-05


1.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the GS-0404-05 minimum qualification requirements for this position:

 I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either Federal service or private sectors) including experience such as: Recording instrument readings, assisting with daily feeding, tank cleaning and basic water quality measurements (such as temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and similar parameters); assisting with fish handling, gamete collection and egg incubation of multiple strains of fish to support station and Service priorities; accurately recording biological fish data (lengths, counts and weights) to support hatchery operations, fish health monitoring, and management decisions.
 I have successfully completed a full four year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (a) with major study in an appropriate field of science (biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics) or (b) that included at least 24 semester hours, or the equivalent, in any combination of courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics. At least 6 semester hours, or the equivalent, must have been directly related to the position to be filled such as aquatic biology, fisheries, aquatic ecology, ichthyology or limnology. Transcripts required.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as described in A and B above which together equals 100% of the requirement. Only progressive education in excess of the first 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours (i.e., beyond the first two years) of a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement and must include the appropriate number of directly related semester hours, or the equivalent, in any combination of courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics.
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


Minimum Qualifications GS-06


2.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the GS-0404-06 minimum qualification requirements for this position:
 I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either Federal service or private sectors) including experience such as: Assisting with daily feeding, tank cleaning and basic water quality measurements (such as temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and similar parameters.); assisting with fish handling, gamete collection and egg incubation of multiple strains of fish to support station and Service priorities; accurately recording biological fish data (lengths, counts and weights) to support hatchery operations, fish health monitoring, and management decisions; performing routine hatchery operations and facility maintenance required for safe and efficient operation, including operation of hatchery water systems, pumps, valves, feeders, alarms and other equipment as well as hand tools and power equipment to maintain buildings and grounds.
 I have successfully completed one-half year of graduate education (9 semester/13.5 quarter hours, or the school's equivalent) in an accredited college or university that included courses directly related to the occupation, such as fishery biology, ichthyology, limnology, aqua culture, etc.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience (as described in A above) and education (as described in B above,) that, when prorated, combine to meet the qualification requirements for this position. Experience and education are each computed as percentages of their respective requirements and must equal 100 percent when combined.
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


Minimum Qualifications GS-07


3.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the GS-0404-07 minimum qualification requirements for this position:
 I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either Federal service or private sectors) including experience such as: Independently feeding, tank cleaning and basic water quality measurements (such as temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and similar parameters.); Independently conducting fish handling, gamete collection and egg incubation of multiple strains of fish to support station and Service priorities; accurately recording biological fish data (lengths, counts and weights) to support hatchery operations, fish health monitoring, and management decisions; performing routine hatchery operations and facility maintenance required for safe and efficient operation, including operation of hatchery water systems, pumps, valves, feeders, alarms and other equipment as well as hand tools and power equipment to maintain buildings and grounds; experience with the use and troubleshooting of fish culture equipment including water quality meters, nets, seines, tagging equipment and ultrasound.
 I have successfully completed one year of graduate education (18 semester/27 quarter hours, or the school's equivalent) in an accredited college or university that included courses directly related to the occupation, such as fishery biology, ichthyology, limnology, aqua culture, etc.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience (as described in A above) and education (as described in B above,) that, when prorated, combine to meet the qualification requirements for this position. Experience and education are each computed as percentages of their respective requirements and must equal 100 percent when combined.
 D. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙