Position Title
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediator
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12905509-26-MG Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.


1.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
 

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service and has held a permanent (non-temporary) position in the competitive service at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Miami, FL
 B. Tampa, FL
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Chicago, IL
 E. Indianapolis, IN
 F. Kansas City, KS
 G. New Orleans, LA
 H. Minneapolis, MN
 I. Saint Louis, MO
 J. Charlotte, NC
 K. Houston, TX
 L. San Antonio, TX


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Carefully read the following description of experience and select the answer that best describes your qualifications for a GS-13 Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediator position.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized work experience comparable to the GS-12 grade level in the federal service directly related to independently performing ADR in highly complex multi-layered Equal Employment Opportunity-related disputes, such as using effective settlement techniques to facilitate communication between disputants to break impasses and/or to further parties' understanding of different perspectives and interests in order to successfully guide parties toward mutual agreement.
 I do not possess experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙