Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist - Positive Airway Pressure Program Coordinator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12905339-26-KA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


3.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.



All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.



Assessment 1
Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if credentialed as a Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) or RRT, the experience is in respiratory care, pulmonary function testing or polysomnography and directly related to the position being filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA) associated with current practice in paid employment as a CRT or RRT.

Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience is credited according to its relationship to the full-time workweek (e.g., an RRT who worked 20 hours a week would receive one full-time workweek of credit for each two weeks of service).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
GS-12 Registered Respiratory Therapist

Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must:
i. Have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, which is defined as: Collaboratively consulting with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes; Evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities; Performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential. The following certifications are preferred but not required:
a. Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist
b. Pulmonary Rehabilitation Certificate issued AARC
c. AE-C awarded by the NAECB
d. COPD Educator course offered by the AARC

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i. Ability to develop policies and guidelines regarding new and emerging procedures.
ii. Ability to implement policies and guidelines regarding new and emerging procedures.
iii. Ability to maintain policies and guidelines regarding new and emerging procedures.
iv. Ability to make recommendations regarding new and emerging procedures.
v. Ability to perform complex analytical studies of patient care.
vi. Ability to interpret results to coordinate the management and evaluation of patient care.
vii. Ability to coordinate the work of subordinate staff.
viii. Ability to manage all aspects of a complex patient care program including day-to-day operation, training program resources and fiscal management.

Do you meet the GS-12 grade requirements?
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS

To qualify for appointment as an RRT, all applicants must possess the following:

Citizenship. Citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, of this part. See 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a) for more information.
Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.
Licensure. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
Physical Standards. You will be asked to participate in a pre-employment examination or evaluation as part of the pre-employment process for this position. Questions about physical demands or environmental factors may be addressed at the time of evaluation or examination. See VA Directive and Handbook 5019, Employee Occupational Health Service for requirements.
English Language Proficiency. RTs/RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Grandfathering Provision. May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).

Do you meet the basic requirements?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙