Position Title
Physician (Clinical Director)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
ERO-12948859-DHA-TSM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eloy, AZ
 B. Folkston, GA
 C. Elizabeth, NJ
 D. Batavia, NY
 E. El Paso, TX
 F. Los Fresnos, TX


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 Yes
 No


5.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'.


Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine if you meet the minimum qualification and basic eligibility requirements for this position. You may consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


1.
DEGREE:
You must have graduated with a Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

Degree from Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.

WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS BEST DESCRIBES YOUR EDUCATION AS RELATED TO THE BASIC QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THIS POSITION?
 I have successfully completed the requirements for Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent degree from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, in the year of my graduation.
 I have successfully completed a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school that provided education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States that was demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG).
 I have successfully completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country that provided education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.
 My education does not match any of the choices listed above.


2.
Provide additional information that supports your claim. If you selected response A, indicate the type of degree and the date received (month/year). If you selected response B or C, provide the date that you passed the examination given by Education Council for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) (month, day, year). Please provide a copy of transcripts (official or unofficial) or ECFMG certificate for Foreign Medical Graduates.


3.
LICENSURE:
For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.

DO YOU POSSESS A CURRENT, ACTIVE, FULL AND UNRESTRICTED LICENSE OR REGISTRATION AS A PHYSICIAN TO PRACTICE MEDICINE IN A STATE, THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO, OR A TERRITORY OF THE UNITED STATES?
 Yes, I possess a license as described above.
 No, I do not possess a license as describe above.


4.
Where was your license issued, and when does it expire? Please provide a copy.


5.
GRADUATE TRAINING (SUPERVISED EXPERIENCE):
Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below.
An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience intreating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association, (AMA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training.

FOR GP-15, DO YOU POSSESS THE ONE (1) YEAR OF SUPERVISED EXPERIENCE FOR GRADUATE TRAINING, AS DESCRIBED ABOVE?
 I possess the one (1) year of supervised experience for graduate training.
 I do not possess the one (1) year of supervised experience described above.


6.
GRADUATE TRAINING:
In addition, you qualify for the GP-15 grade level if you possess five (5) years of graduate training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.

FOR GP-15, DO YOU POSSESS THE ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR GRADUATE TRAINING AS DESCRIBED ABOVE?
 Yes, I have completed 5 years of graduate training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training in Family medicine, Internal Medicine, Emergency Medicine, Occupational Medicine, or Preventive Medicine, leading to board eligibility in that field.
 No, I do not possess the graduate training described above.


ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS: All qualified employees will undergo a credentialing process prior to employment with IHSC. This process includes validation of medical examinations, education, internship and residency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
PREFERRED EXPERIENCE:
For the GP-15 grade level, one (1) year of specialized experience at the GP-14 grade level in the Federal Service or equivalent public or private sector is preferred. Experience includes directly related, professional or scientific work in a field of medicine that may involve providing direct patient-care services, performing duties such as: 
Serving as a clinical expert in the provision of technical assistance and consultation, and management of clinically oriented staff; 
Serving as subject matter expert and applying expert knowledge of clinical medicine and current standards of practice; and
Supervising Clinical Directors or other supervisory medical healthcare professionals and providing guidance on the clinical oversight of mid-level providers.

DO YOU POSSESS THE PREFERRED EXPERIENCE AS DESCRIBED ABOVE?
 Yes
 No


8.
SPECIALTY TRAINING: Completion of three (3) years of medical specialty training in Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Emergency Medicine, Occupational Medicine, or Preventive Medicine leading to board eligibility in that field, with board certification preferred.

DO YOU POSSESS THE MEDICAL SPECIALTY TRAINING, AS DESCRIBED ABOVE?
 Yes
 No


9.
BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS) CERTIFICATION:
You must possess and maintain Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Basic Life Support (BLS) certification with either the American Red Cross (CPR)/Automated External for Professional Rescuers and Health Care Providers, or American Heart Association (Basic Life Support for Healthcare Providers). (Please provide a copy)

DO YOU POSSESS THE BLS CERTIFICATION, AS DESCRIBED ABOVE?
 YES
 NO


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
Do you possess a board certification from the American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA) in Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Emergency Medicine, Occupational Medicine, or Preventive Medicine?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙