Position Title
POWER PLANT MAINTENANCE AND REMOTE OPERATIONS SUPERVISOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13068820-DHA
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
RK CECE2021036 CE Power Plant Maintenance and Remote Operations Supervisor 2150 MPP
.
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Maintenance and Remote Operations Supervisor position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Power Plant Maintenance and Remote Operations Supervisor without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to supervise the most difficult and complex power plant operations and maintenance duties. I am skilled in planning the use of subordinate supervisors, workers, equipment, facilities, materials and tools on a day-to-day or project-by-project basis. Projects are complex and often changing, making the need to update the planning of workers and equipment on a constant basis. I identify potential problems with power plant equipment and systems and made the necessary changes whether it be in personnel or procedures, to avoid the future problems all together. I verify the quality of work done during and after a project has been completed. Typical work that is being validated includes, but is not limited to, work from the following power plant journeyman disciplines: Electricians, and Mechanics. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to supervise the full range power plant operations and maintenance duties. I am skilled in planning the use of workers, equipment, facilities, materials and tools on a day-to-day or project-by-project basis. Projects were routine and often steady with few changes making the original plan of workers and equipment sufficient. I identify problems with power plant equipment and systems when they happened and made the necessary changes whether it be in personnel or procedures, to correct the problem. I verify the quality of work done during and after a project has been completed. Typical work that is being validated includes, but is not limited to, work from the following power plant journeyman disciplines: Electricians, and Mechanics. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to supervise common power plant operations and maintenance duties. I have the potential ability to assign work to plan the use of workers, equipment, facilities, materials and tools on a day-to-day or project-by-project basis. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to supervise simple power plant operations and maintenance duties or I have received training on the use of various equipment, materials, and tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
