Position Title
Investigative Analyst (Financial Analysis) - Investigative Operations Division
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
IA-26-41A-12912097-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG), United States Postal Service (USPS), United Sates Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), or Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) career employee?  If yes, please submit a copy of your current PS-50 form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Montgomery, AL
 BC. Anchorage, AK
 BQ. Phoenix, AZ
 BR. Tucson, AZ
 BS. Little Rock, AR
 BT. Chula Vista, CA
 BU. Fresno, CA
 BV. Long Beach, CA
 BW. Los Angeles County, CA
 BX. Oakland, CA
 BY. Riverside, CA
 BZ. Sacramento County, CA
 CA. San Jose, CA
 CB. San Mateo, CA
 CC. Santa Clarita, CA
 CD. Denver, CO
 CE. New Haven, CT
 CF. Southeastern Connecticut Planning Region, CT
 CG. Washington, DC
 CH. Jacksonville, FL
 CI. Miami, FL
 CJ. Orlando, FL
 CK. Tallahassee, FL
 CL. Tampa, FL
 CM. West Palm Beach, FL
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Honolulu, HI
 D. Carol Stream, IL
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Hammond, IN
 G. Indianapolis, IN
 H. Windsor Heights, IA
 I. Covington, KY
 J. Louisville, KY
 K. New Orleans, LA
 L. Shreveport, LA
 M. Baltimore, MD
 N. Bethesda, MD
 O. Capitol Heights, MD
 P. Brockton, MA
 Q. Woburn, MA
 R. Allen Park, MI
 S. Grand Rapids, MI
 T. Duluth, MN
 U. Eagan, MN
 V. Jackson, MS
 W. Kansas City, MO
 X. Saint Charles, MO
 Y. Saint Louis, MO
 Z. Las Vegas, NV
 AA. Bellmawr, NJ
 AC. Edison, NJ
 AD. Trenton, NJ
 AE. Albuquerque, NM
 AF. Brooklyn, NY
 AG. Buffalo, NY
 AH. New York, NY
 AI. Syracuse, NY
 AJ. West Babylon, NY
 AK. Charlotte, NC
 AL. Greensboro, NC
 AM. Raleigh, NC
 AN. Columbus, OH
 AO. Lakewood, OH
 AP. Oklahoma City, OK
 AQ. Portland, OR
 AR. Harrisburg, PA
 AS. Warrendale, PA
 AT. San Juan, PR
 AU. Woonsocket, RI
 AV. West Columbia, SC
 AW. Knoxville, TN
 AX. Memphis, TN
 AY. Austin, TX
 AZ. Bedford, TX
 BA. Coppell, TX
 BB. Dallas, TX
 BD. El Paso, TX
 BE. Houston, TX
 BF. San Antonio, TX
 BG. Salt Lake City, UT
 BH. Arlington, VA
 BI. Chesapeake, VA
 BJ. Merrifield, VA
 BK. Richmond, VA
 BL. Roanoke, VA
 BM. Federal Way, WA
 BN. Spokane, WA
 BO. Vancouver, WA
 BP. Milwaukee, WI


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Employees Only 
 
This announcement is only open internally to the following current employees:
United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG)
United States Postal Service (USPS)
United States Postal Inspection Service (USPIS)
Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC)
 
All others (non-postal OIG employees) are ineligible for this announcement.
Merit Promotion/Competitive Service, Excepted Service, and U.S. Veterans must apply to announcement #: 12912118.
 

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for this position.
 I am a current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employee and will submit my PS50 with my application.
 I am not a current employee.


2.
Education Requirement (1805 Investigative Analyst Series)



Select the option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.


 I have a degree from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I do not meet the education requirement described in the minimum qualifications of this announcement.


3.
Professional (Full-Time) Experience Requirement


Please select which matches your level of professional experience (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of professional, full-time experience in financial analysis, auditing, or data analytics in support of federal law enforcement.
 More than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional, full-time experience in financial analysis, auditing, or data analytics in support of federal law enforcement.
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in financial analysis, auditing, or data analytics in support of federal law enforcement.
 More than four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in financial analysis, auditing, or data analytics in support of federal law enforcement.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described in the announcement.


4.
Performance Appraisal Requirements


Select the option that best describes how you meet the past performance requirements for this position.


 I received at least "met expectations" rating on my two most recent performance appraisals. I will attach my performance appraisals for FY 2024 and FY 2025 with my application.
 I do not meet the past performance requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
In-Office Requirement & Duty Station Location Space Availability

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Duty location will be assigned based on space availability at the time of selection. You will have the opportunity to ask more about this during an interview.

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Certification of Accuracy
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.
 

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙