Position Title
Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12969169-26-TW Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist GS-11 position with the Washington VA Medical Center. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, please note that your experience and education are subject to verification through investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G26, requires that applicants meet the following basic requirements.


The following are the basic requirements for appointment as a Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education.

Individuals must have successfully completed a program in therapeutic radiologic technology, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's or higher degree accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (ED) and the subsequent completion of a 12-month ED accrediting body-approved program in therapeutic radiologic technology.

Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75. They must have successfully completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the ED, and be radiation therapists certified by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (T).

Have you completed the above required education?

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE:
You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification.

All applicants must be certified in therapeutic radiologic technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T)).

(1) All applicants must be certified in therapeutic radiologic technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T)

(2) Exception.
(a) Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for TRT certification may be given a temporary appointment under 38 U.S.C. § 7405 (a)(1)(B) for up to one year at the entry level only as a graduate TRT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405 (c)(2)(B).
(b) Graduate TRTs may only be appointed at the entry grade level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(c) Temporary graduate TRT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

(d) Failure to Obtain Certification In all cases, TRTs must actively pursue meeting the requirements for certification starting from the date of their appointment. Failure to become certified within one year from the date of appointment will result in removal from the GS-0648 TRT series and may result in termination of employment.(3) Loss of Certification Once certified, a TRT who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment.

Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT?

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


Physical Requirements.

Heavy Lifting and carrying (50 lbs), straight pulling/pushing, hand-over-hand pushing (2 hours), reaching above shoulder level, use of fingers and both hands required, walking/standing/crawling (5 hours), repeated bending (3 hours), ability for rapid mental and muscular coordination simultaneously, depth perception, ability to distinguish basic colors and shades of color, emotional and mental stability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
English Language Proficiency.

Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist must be proficient in spoken and written English. See law 38 U.S.C ? 7403(f).


Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATIONS:

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the criteria discussed in the applicable headings, or that defined in the appendices, must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist, GS-11

(1) Experience.
At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade
level directly related to the position being filled.

(2) Assignments.
The lead TRT functions as a team leader for a group of TRTs who
provide the full range of general and complex therapeutic radiologic oncology
treatment procedures. The lead TRT provides technical oversight, distributes work
assignments and provides input on performance and competencies. Assignments
at this level include, but are not limited to: approving leave requests for a few
hours or in emergency situations; instructing and training TRT staff on newly
acquired equipment; providing orientation to staff, students, residents and others
as requested; and assisting with staff scheduling, quality assurance, compliance,
authoring, reviewing and updating procedures and policies. In addition, the lead
TRT serves as the technical mentor, trainer and coach for the staff. The lead TRT
is accountable to the next higher-level supervisor.

Do you meet the above experience requirements for the GS-11 Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist position?

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

Candidates must demonstrate all the KSAs below:

(a) Ability to provide technical oversight, assure compliance with standard
operating procedures, distribute work assignments to lower level radiation
therapists and provide input for performance appraisals and competencies.

(b) Skill in effective communication of all aspects of patient care with the radiation
oncology team to include facilitating all essential communication to the Chief
Radiation Therapist or leadership regarding clinical and operational issues.

(c) Ability to independently deliver, mentor and provide oversight to lower level
TRTs with basic and complex radiation treatments on a linear accelerator, as
prescribed by the radiation oncologist.

(d) Ability to instruct and train TRTs on the Record and Verify System (or other
similar treatment delivery systems), newly acquired equipment, devices and
products within the service.

(e) Ability to resolve informal employee disputes and concerns using problem
solving skills.

(f) Ability to develop local policies and standard operating procedures.

(g) Ability to perform lead responsibilities such facilitating quality improvement
activities, conducting in-service and staff meetings, conducting other
departmental meetings as requested

(h) Skill in facilitating chart rounds.

Do you meet the above knowledge, skills and ability requirements for the GS-11 Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist position?

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙