Position Title
Public Notice for Direct Hire (Contract Specialist)
Agency
Defense Information Systems Agency
Announcement Number
DHA-FLYER-12782043-25KDS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2025 to Sep 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have any relatives working for the Agency for which you are applying?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you answered yes to the previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization employed within, and location if known.


6.
If you were recommended to apply for this position by a current DISA employee, please indicate the name of that employee.


7.
Are you a current employee of the Agency for which you are applying?
 Yes
 No


There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for this position for applicants who have held a General Schedule (GS) position in the previous 52 weeks. These applicants must meet TIG within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement. Your answer to this section will indicate you possess the time in grade requirement or if it does not apply. Please answer the following question(s) by selecting the most appropriate response.



8.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 No, I have not been a federal employee in the GS during the last 52 weeks OR I do not know my highest grade or equivalent.
 Yes, I have held a position at, above or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks (or will meet the TIG requirement within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement).
 One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 None of the above apply to me.


9.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-11 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 No, I have not been a federal employee in the GS during the last 52 weeks OR I do not know my highest grade or equivalent.
 Yes, I have held a position at, above or equivalent to the GS-11 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks (or will meet the TIG requirement within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement).
 One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 None of the above apply to me.


10.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-12 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 No, I have not been a federal employee in the GS during the last 52 weeks OR I do not know my highest grade or equivalent.
 Yes, I have held a position at, above or equivalent to the GS-12 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks (or will meet the TIG requirement within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement).
 One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 None of the above apply to me.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙