Position Title
Facility Manager-Community Recreation
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12952350 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Navy NAF employee that occupied a position within CNIC Headquarters, Region or Installation Human Resources Office? If yes, you must submit a copy of your Personnel Action Report (PAR) at time of application.
 Yes
 No


Merit Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with Command Navy Region Northwest Fleet and Family Readiness Programs.  This assessment is designed to determine your suitability for Facility Manager - Community Recreation at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island.  Failure to complete the assessment will result in a non-eligible rating.


1.
Choose the answer that best describes your experience with planning, directing and managing a facility or program that includes, dining, social and recreational services, events and related activities.
 I have at least two years experience planning, directing and managing a facility or program that includes, dining, social and recreational services, events and related activities in a DoD facility
 I have at least two years experience planning, directing and managing a facility or program that includes, dining, social and recreational services, events and related activities in the civilian sector
 I have less than two years experience planning, directing and managing a facility or program that includes, dining, social and recreational services, events and related activities in a DoD or civilian facility


2.
Do you have the ability to lift up to 45 pounds unassisted?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is directly responsible for all aspects of the program, including full accountability for all employees. What is your experience managing employees in a dining and/or social environment?
 More than 5 years
 3 to 5 years
 1 to 3 years
 I do not have this experience


4.
Describe your knowledge of DOD and Navy Fleet Readiness policies, regulation, administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of social and recreational programs for efficient operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.


5.
Please indicate the position indicated in your resume where you provided both general and technical guidance and support to personnel and patrons or perspective program/facility users.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙