Position Title
Senior Advisor for Financial Strategies & Policy
Agency
Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Announcement Number
HUD-OCFO-SL-26-13056967 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Screen-Outs
1.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 Yes, I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 I decline to certify the accuracy of my application.


2.
Do you have broad and complex experience primarily leading teams and projects that is directly related to the skills and abilities as outlined under the Mandatory Technical Qualifications for this position?
 Yes, I have broad and complex experience primarily leading teams and projects that is directly related to the skills and abilities as outlined under the Mandatory Technical Qualifications for this position?
 No, I do not have broad and complex experience primarily leading teams and projects that is directly related to the skills and abilities as outlined under the Mandatory Technical Qualifications for this position?


3.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. Have you held a political appointment within the last five (5) years? Note, political appointee is described described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule) OR an assistant position to a political appointee. A political Schedule A, Schedule C, or an individual serving in a political capacity under agency-specific authority occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President or OPM because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties. And a noncareer SES or Limited Term SES or Limited Emergency SES is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙