Position Title
Maintenance Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12982700 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Not RequiredThank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Maintenance Worker position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating

.This is a career-ladder, developmental position where the incumbent may be promoted non-competitively to the full performance level and target grade of Maintenance Worker, NA-4749-07, PD MA 07-012. Non-competitive promotion may occur upon meeting the following requirements: a) satisfactory demonstration of ability to perform at the higher grade level (b) assignment of increased responsibilities (c) recommendation for promotion by supervisor and (d) satisfactory completion of all required training, licenses, and developmental assignments.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you hold and can you maintain a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to work an irregular schedule? Could include nights, weekends, being recalled and emergency basis scheduling.
 Yes
 No


3.
Select all trades in which you have performed basic, hands-on repairs. Must be documented on resume for credit. (Select all that apply):
 A. Plumbing (e.g., clearing drains, replacing faucets/flappers)
 B. Appliance Repair (e.g., troubleshooting washers/dryers, replacing hoses or belts)
 C. HVAC (e.g., changing filters, cleaning coils)
 D. Electrical (e.g., replacing light switches, outlets, or bulbs)
 E. Carpentry (e.g., repairing doors, patching drywall, basic woodwork)
 F. Painting (e.g., surface preparation, priming, interior/exterior painting)
 G. None of the above


4.
For the trades you selected in Question 3, describe your experience.
 2+ years of basic knowledge of trade practices (listed above) in a DoD operation
 2+ years of basic knowledge of trade practices (listed above) in a civilian operation
 1 - 2 years of basic knowledge of trade practices (listed above) in a DoD operation
 1 - 2 years of basic knowledge of trade practices (listed above) in a civilian operation
 Less than 1 year of basic knowledge of trade practices (listed above) in either a DoD or civilian operation
 No documentation of basic knowledge of trade practices (listed above) in a DoD or civilian operation


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙