Position Title
Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (AVREO)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
325-26-MT-13047449-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (AVREO) GS-0101-14 position with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). We will evaluate your resume, application and responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capabilities. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION  This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent VBA employees AND VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
Do you meet the Area of Consideration Requirements as described above?
 Yes, I am a current, permanent VBA employee and I will submit my SF-50 as defined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
 No. I do not meet the Area of Consideration Requirements as described above.


TIME-IN GRADE The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In Grade requirements for the Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor position. Select the response that best represents your eligibility for this position. To qualify for the GS-0101-14 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-13 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement. Note: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion or with-in grade increase SF-50 (NOT an award or general adjustment SF-50) as defined in the "Required Documents" section of this job announcement.


2.
For the GS-0101-14 position, do you have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-13 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-13 level or above by the closing date of this announcement.
 No, I do not have 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-13 level or above by the closing date of this announcement.


BASIC QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

This position has a Basic Requirement which requires candidates must meet the following Basic Education Requirement, Combination of education and experience or Experience Requirement listed below:

Master's Degree in Rehabilitation counseling that included an internship;
 
OR

Master's Degree in counseling psychology (or related field) that included an internship in rehabilitation counseling and was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours of course work in a majority of the following areas: foundations of rehabilitation counseling, human growth and development, counseling theories and techniques, vocational assessment, career development, job placement, case management, and medical/psycho-social aspects of disability;
  
OR

Master's Degree listed in 1 or 2 WITHOUT a rehabilitation counseling internship. Where the internship was substituted for professional experience following completion of the master's degree. [Experience suitable for substitution must be one full year in direct delivery of vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs, other than those in correctional facilities. The experience or internship/practicum must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.]


3.
This position has a Basic Requirements which requires candidates must meet the following Basic Education Requirement, Combination of education and experience or Experience Requirement listed above:

Do you have the Basic Requirement Education and Experience listed about listed above?
 I have completed a degree in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling or social work. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have a combination of education and experience. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have at least one-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE To qualify for the Supervisory Vocational Rehab Counselor (AVREO) position you must have at least one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience at the GS-13 level or above by the closing date of this announcement.

Specialized experience is defined as:  
Experience in conducting assessments of veteran's employability,
Involvement in the development of appropriate vocational goals and subsequent objectives outlined in rehabilitation plans,
Providing case management services to veterans while pursuing their rehabilitation plans (e.g. personal contact regarding achievement of vocational goals, referral for medical or ancillary services, and responding efficiently to veteran's concerns),
Experience in training; and understanding and clearly explaining to veterans, the benefits, and services available through the VR&E program.


4.
For the Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (AVREO) GS-0101-14 position, do you have at least 52 weeks of qualifying specialized experience at the GS-13 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of qualifying specialized experience a described above.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of qualifying specialized experience as described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this occupational questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙