Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Coder)
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-12957732-ESEP/MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kyle, SD
 B. Pine Ridge, SD


2.
Which hiring plan applies to you and how do you want to be considered for employment? If you are not sure, visit the IHS Jobs Board Which Plan Should I Select.
You will only be considered for those that you select. (Select all that apply)
 A. I would like to be considered for Merit Promotion Plan (MPP), i.e., a permanent or separated permanent federal employee
 B. I would like to be considered for Excepted Service Examining Plan (ESEP), i.e., Indian Preference
 C. I would like to be considered for both A and B (MP/ESEP)
 D. I would like to be considered as a Public Health Service Commissioned Corps officer/candidate
 E. I am eligible for another non-competitive hiring authority and have submitted documentation with my application/resume package
 F. None of the above hiring plans apply to me


3.
Full Time Availability - 40 hours per week
 Yes
 No


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
Minimum Qualification, GS-08, Medical Records Technician
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-08. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have one year of full-time specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-07 grade level that equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples include: Identify medical record code issues and correct sequencing properties. Use of excellent customer service to collaborate with medical providers to ensure diagnostic terminology meets medical nomenclature. Use medical coding principles for accurate submittal, billing, and tracking. Operate a variety of office automated systems to submit coding transactions.
 I do not possess the experience listed above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙