Position Title
Wastewater Treatment Operator Lead
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12890435-WE-JP-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to May 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Your resume should support your answers to the questions stated below.



Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


1.

Select the best statement that describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Wastewater Treatment Operator Lead without more than normal supervision.

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience leading others to achieve project and organizational goals.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task as a first level supervisor.
 I have performed this task as a second level supervisor.
 I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained and directed others in their performance as a supervisor.


3.
Have you performed the work of a Wastewater Treatment and Collections Mechanic without greater than normal supervision?
 Yes
 No


4.
Which response best describes your highest level of experience treating waste water prior to discharge?
 I have completed education or training in how to perform this task, but have not performed it on the job.
 I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 I have performed this task independently, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 None of the above


5.
Have you cleaned sewage tanks?
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙