Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Compensation)- Detail/ Temp Promotion NTE 1 Year
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZE-13022349-26-AM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Compensation) position with the VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that experience and education are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Time-In-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. Do you possess 52 weeks at the GS-12 level to meet time in grade restrictions for the GS-13?

(NOTE: If your current SF-50 does not clearly show you meet one-year time in grade as required in the announcement, then you must submit additional SF-50s.)

 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: Candidates must meet one of the following basic requirements as described in one of the following methods: Merit-Based Method, Education-Based Method or Training-Based Method. Please select the item below which best describes how you meet the basic requirement to qualify for this position.

 I have one year of specialized experience requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying basic HR concepts, laws, principles, policies, methods, practices and/or HR systems. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. This experience must be equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher).
 I have Six months of general experience, equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government, requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying laws, regulations, rules, principles, policies, methods, practices, supporting customers, communicating in writing and/or verbally and using various computer systems and office equipment in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions, plus the possession of ONE of the four training criteria: 1) Successful completion of at least 12 credit hours of college-level (associate degree or higher level) course work in any of the following types of fields, majors or programs or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs: HR (general), HR development, HR management, business, business management/administration, industrial relations, labor relations, industrial psychology, organizational psychology, organizational development, management, organizational behavior, pre-law/law, legal studies, health care management/administration, public administration, public policy, human services, leadership and humanities; OR 2) Successful completion of at least four formal training courses in HR. The focus of these HR courses will be in areas or those closely related to general HR, Federal HR, private sector/corporate HR or HR management. These courses must be offered through VA (i.e., Talent Management System courses), Federal agencies/departments (i.e., OPM Federal Human Resources Institute) or through external organizations (i.e., HR Certification Institute (HRCI?) Learning, HR University or Management Concepts). For the purpose of this standard, formal means interactive (online or in-person) training that includes communication between the participants and/or the instructor. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of successful completion by the training organization; OR 3) Successful completion of a formal certificate program in any of the areas (or related areas) listed in Training 1 (above) or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs. A formal certificate program for the purposes of this standard means a series.
 This requirement does not apply to me because I have been employed in VA since the effective date of this qualification standard (January 13, 2023), therefore; considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including the basic requirements of the occupation.
 None of the above.


3.
Grade Level Qualification Requirements. Applicants must possess either Criteria 1: Graduate Degree and Specialized Experience or Criteria 2: Specialized Experience to qualify for this position at the GS-13 grade level. Select the response below that best describes your level of education and/or experience.

 Yes, I have a Graduate Degree and Specialized Experience: Successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: providing leadership consulting and advisory functions in compensation; analyzing, interpreting, developing, and/or implementing laws, regulations, policies, and/or guidance on subject matter areas within compensation administration; provides expert guidance and oversight to facilities on General Schedule, Federal Wage system, Hybrid 38, and Title 38 employment and pay systems.
 Yes, I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in federal service that demonstrates HR management knowledge, concepts and principles and the performance of work in one or more of the HR specialty areas. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: providing leadership consulting and advisory functions in compensation; analyzing, interpreting, developing, and/or implementing laws, regulations, policies, and/or guidance on subject matter areas within compensation administration; provides expert guidance and oversight to facilities on General Schedule, Federal Wage system, Hybrid 38, and Title 38 employment and pay systems; oversees the development and establishment or adjustments to special salary rates or nurse locality pay schedules; analyzing staffing and salary survey data to identify issues and trends involving title 38 and title 5 pay administration or identifying corrective action for complex pay issues; serving as a subject matter expert for physician, dentists, and podiatrists market pay determinations and/or recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives; applying criteria, principles, and standard methods to resolve a variety of conventional compensation issues and problems pertaining to basic pay setting, locality pay, special rates, back pay, pay limitations, premium pay, grade and pay retention, severance pay, and cost-of-living allowances.
 No, I do not meet the experience and education levels above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
A Selective Placement Factors will be used to rate applications for this announcement. Applicants who do not meet the Selective Placement Factors will be rated as not qualified for the announcement. Such experience should reflect in your resume.

The Selective Placement Factor: Successful candidates must demonstrate current knowledge of Human Resources programs including the establishment, verification, and continuance of special salary rates and schedules, Student Loan Repayment Program (SLRP), Education Debt Reduction Program (EDRP), Retention, Relocation, and Recruitment (3Rs), and Critical Skills incentives, Network-wide; and HR platform systems, such as Electronic Official Personnel File (eOPF), HR Smart, LEAF and yourHR.

Do you posses the Selective Placement Factors listed above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙