Position Title
CYP Regional Program Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12952572 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to Jun 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Merit Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Regional Program Analyst. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have the equivalent of 3 years of experience in professional management, financial management, and administrative experience that qualifies for the position.
 I have a 2-year degree related to Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management or Communication AND 2 years of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 I have a 4-year degree in the same fields AND 1 year of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management, or Communication.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management, or Communication.
 I have a 2-year degree in Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management, or Communication.
 I do not have a degree, but have 3 years of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis to provide effective financial management support as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 5+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in performing analysis of operational requirements (e.g., manpower planning, organizational structures, and/or operations)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in performing operational analysis.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have with child and youth programs and services?
 I have 3+ years of experience with DoD Child and Youth Programs.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with DoD Child and Youth Programs.
 I have 3+ years of experience with child and youth programs outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with child and youth programs.
 I have no experience with the above.


6.
Do you have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
Do you have experience in overseeing one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in overseeing all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙