Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer- Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1547-HAVO-26-12806974-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Dec 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Utility System Repairer-Operator, WG-4742-09 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to unclick the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items that are left blank will not receive credit. Please respond to each statement. If you leave any responses blank, your score may be negatively impacted. You must document your experience in your resume.


Ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision (Screen Out)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. YOU MUST DOCUMENT/VERIFY YOUR RESPONSE IN YOUR RESUME/APPLICATION.

 I have Utility Systems Repairer-Operator experience in the repair and installation of water and/or wastewater pipes, valves, fire hydrants and related public water and/or wastewater systems. I have performed troubleshooting on various water treatment equipment such as chemical solution feeders and chlorinators, mixed media pressure filters, slow sand filtration, cartridge type filtration systems, pressure regulators. I utilize hand and power tools associated with this trade. I perform these duties on independently subject to occasional inspection.
 I have Utility Systems Repairer-Operator experience in in the repair and installation of water and/or wastewater pipes, valves, fire hydrants and related public water and/or wastewater system appurtenances. I utilize hand and power tools associated with this trade. I perform these duties on my own initiative and under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have entry-level Utility Systems Repairer/Operator Helper experience in assisting the operation and maintenance of a water & wastewater treatment facility, or a utility system related to water production and treatment. I utilize hand and power tools associated with this trade. I perform these duties under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer-Operator who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I am able to perform simple plumbing tasks, but I know little or nothing about wastewater treatment/collection or water production/treatment/distribution but I'm willing to learn.
 I do not have experience with the work described above.


Water Distribution


2.
I have the following Distribution System Operator (DSO) Grade 1 Certification issued by the State of Hawaii and will upload a copy of my certification.

 Yes, I have a Hawaii DSO Grade 1 or higher certification.
 No, I do not hold a Hawaii DSO Grade 1 certification.


Water Treatment Plant Operator


3.
I have the following Water Treatment Plant Operator (WTPO) Grade 1 certification issued by the State of Hawaii and will upload a copy of my certification.
 Yes, I have a Hawaii WTPO Grade 1 or higher certification
 No, I do not hold a Hawaii WTPO Grade 1 certification.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙