Position Title
Physical Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12978698-26-DC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Physical Therapy Assistant position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills, and abilities) related to this position. This section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) in response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a, requires that applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
A requirement for appointment as a Physical Therapy Assistant VHA includes education: To be eligible for appointment in VHA, select the appropriate answer that applies to you. (Must provide Transcripts with application)
 I possess a Associate degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a physical therapy assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy
 I possess a Graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs. (Please include a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application)
 I possess a Graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs.]
 I do not meet any of the requirements above.


3.
Required Licensure: Current, full, active, and unrestricted license as a PTA in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia. (Must provide copy of Licensure with application.)

Select the response that best describes you.
 Yes, I am Licensed.
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements, but do not possess state licensure. Note:(may be appointed, pending licensure, as a graduate PTA on a full-time temporary appointment under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7401(a)(1)(B) and not to exceed two years in accordance with the timeframe in 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B).
 I do not meet the requirements as noted on a. and b.


4.
For the Physical Therapy Assistant GS-08 applicant must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of a GS-07. Examples of demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate ALL the following KSAs:

(a) Ability to independently implement treatment plan using knowledge of techniques related to the patient's disability and needs.
(b) Ability to independently provide varied and multifaceted physical therapy interventions based on the established care plan (e.g., therapeutic exercise, balance, body mechanics, flexibility, strength, gait training, neuromotor development, physical agents, functional training, etc.).
(c) Knowledge of physical therapy data collection and assessment techniques in order to perform specific interventions and to monitor and capture progress of the patient/client.
(d) Ability to instruct patient on varied interventions to provide materials to enhance compliance with home programs.
(e) Ability to modify treatment techniques based on the learning needs and perceptions of the patient.
(f) Ability to identify critical changes (e.g. vital signs, pain, mobility and alertness) in patient conditions to determine their medical and functional status.
(g) Ability to work with PTs and other interdisciplinary healthcare team members to evaluate patient information for planning, modifying and coordinating treatment programs and discharge planning.

Select the answer that best describes you.
 Yes, I meet the GS-07 experience requirements of a Physical Therapy Assistant.
 No, I do not meet the requirements as listed above.


Documentation Reminder - If you are a current Federal or VA employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." A SF-50 showing your one year of creditable experience to the next lower grade requirement must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess the creditable experience to the next lower grade. , as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying one year of creditable experience to the next lower grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


Resume Reminder - Please ensure that you resume contains the following: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month / Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time (include hours worked) ALL INFORMATION MUST BE CURRENT AND DOCUMENTS SIGNED WITH THE LAST 6 MONTHS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Certification of understanding-I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙