Position Title
Education Services Officer
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12913000-WE-JP-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to May 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your education which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Education Services Officer, GS-1740-11
 I have a bachelor's or graduate degree that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of courses appropriate to this position in one or a combination of the following: educational program administration, curriculum development or design, teaching methods, guidance and counseling, career planning, occupational information, tests and measurement, or adult education. At least one course was in test and measurement or adult education.
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
In addition to meeting the basic education requirements for this position, you must also meet one of the following education or experience requirements to qualify at the GS-11 grade level.  Your experience must be related to the duties of this position, as described Item A below.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service to include: Providing individual career and academic guidance regarding undergraduate, graduate, and vocational opportunities; Developing and administering a range of educational programs; Managing Voluntary Education, Tuition Assistance, and military testing programs; Ensuring compliance with educational standards, analyzing program effectiveness, and developing curriculum for adult education; Coordinating and interpreting results from specialized tests, such as the ASVAB for military processing or vocational aptitude assessments.
 I have completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field of study from an accredited college and/or university. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent one year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours will satisfying the one year of full-time study requirement. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" above and graduate education as described in "B" above. To combine education and experience, determine the total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level. Then determine the education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level (note: only graduate education in excess of 2 full years, 36 semester hours or equivalent is creditable). Finally, add two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


4.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.
 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙