Position Title
Claims Manager
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCLO-26-12931227-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-11 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-11 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 None of the above apply.


Merit Hiring
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question or Not Applicable. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Claims Manager position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Claims Manager at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in establishing, implementing, and maintaining control systems for program operations or administration.
 I have played a supporting role in the formulation and implementation of control systems.
 I have participated on a team that analyzed program statistics and data and developed recommendations for the implementation of control systems.
 I have worked independently to analyze program statistics and data and developed recommendations for the implementation of control systems.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


3.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your skill in developing and administering work methods and procedures. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have designed and implemented work methods and procedures that are utilized throughout a legal office.
 B. I have designed, developed and implemented management policies, procedures, standards and practices in a legal or non-legal office setting.
 C. I have analyzed and interpreted policy guidance contained in regulations and directives.
 D. I have developed desk guides and/or standard operation procedure manuals for a legal office.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


4.
Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing or administrating an important program and/or project. (Select all that apply)
 A. Served as lead or manager for a significant program and/or project and made recommendations to superiors on the best course of action regarding the success of the program and/or project.
 B. Participated in meetings with senior level personnel and prepared technical and/or operational analyses, background information, fact sheets and other material concerning issues regarding potential weaknesses in the program and/or project.
 C. Responded verbally to inquiries or requests for information regarding a program and/or project.
 D. Led, developed, and maintained consensus-building processes among the other team members to achieve goals that helped ensure the success of the program and/or project.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


5.
Which one of the following best describes your ability to independently organize, coordinate, and prioritize a variety of activities?
 I have experience independently carrying out a variety of activities which required coordinating with other offices, coordinated work schedules to ensure adequate office coverage, and setting priorities for completion of work in an office.
 I have experience carrying out a variety of activities with established priorities which required coordinating with other offices and providing direction to staff.
 I have experience which required organizing and prioritizing own workload.
 I have had formal education and/or training which demonstrates some possession of the above.
 I have not had education, training, or expertise in performing this task.


6.
From the list below, identify the types of legal research you have conducted. (Please select all that apply)
 A. Statute (including legislative history)
 B. Case law (including judicial decisions)
 C. Regulation/administrative rules (federal and state, including agency decisions)
 D. Policy guidance
 E. Federal rules
 F. I have not conducted the above legal research, but I have conducted in-depth non-legal research.
 G. I have not conducted legal research as described above.


7.
Which of the following best describes your experience with the basic principles and methodology used in legal research?
 I have experience locating non-legal reference materials.
 I have experience locating requested legal reference materials and requested cites and statutes.
 I have experience researching statutes, regulations, precedents, and established practices sufficient to identify basic legal issues, develop summaries and digests of legal references, and analyze precedents in well-defined and settled points of law through research of reference sources.
 I do not possess any of the above-described experience.


8.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill in using office automation equipment and software packages to research data and conduct data analysis.
 I have expert knowledge and can use most of the advanced features in Microsoft 365 Office products, such as SharePoint, Teams, Excel, Access, Outlook, Word and/or OneNote to create, manage, and analyze data.
 I have intermediate knowledge and can use some of the advanced features of Microsoft 365 Office products, such as SharePoint, Teams, Excel, Access, Outlook, Word and/or OneNote to manage data.
 I have basic knowledge and can use the basic features in Microsoft 365 Office products, such as SharePoint, Teams, Excel, Access, Outlook, Word and/or OneNote to input data.
 None of the above.


9.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection?
 I have extensive experience in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection, and have trained others to complete these tasks.
 I have independently prepared reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 I have played a supporting role in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 None of the above.


10.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? (Select all that apply)
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects
 C. Started up and managed projects through completion
 D. Established and monitored project progress
 E. Made resource decisions for competing projects
 F. Assigned tasks and monitored performance
 G. Anticipated and resolved problems
 H. None of the above


11.
In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations in a work situation? (Select all that apply)
 A. Speeches
 B. Meetings
 C. Trainings
 D. Technical assistance/technical briefings
 E. Executive briefings
 F. None of the above


12.
From the list below, identify the types of legal or related documents you have drafted. (Please select all that apply)
 A. Correspondence to external stakeholders
 B. Pleadings, motions, or legal memoranda
 C. Memos or other guidance documents applying applicable law to facts asserted in claims
 D. Trial or Deposition Subpoenas
 E. I have not drafted legal or related documents as described above.


13.
From the list below, identify which activities you have performed related to the preparation and/or review of legal documents, instruments, and exhibits. (Please select all that apply)
 A. Proofreading for spelling and punctuation.
 B. Proofreading for adherence to appropriate legal document format.
 C. Editing for correct legal document style (e.g., local rules, appellate rules, etc).
 D. Retrieving, organizing, and establishing case files.
 E. Reviewing legal citations for accuracy and applicability.
 F. Reviewing legal citations for adherence to the standards and rules of legal citation and style.
 G. I do not have experience performing the activities listed above.


14.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience communicating recommendations on major strategic decisions to management.
 I have presented complex information to my manager or members of management on discussions of sensitive issues relating to important strategic or financial decisions.
 I have routinely discussed recommendations related to major (office- or agency-wide) strategic and financial decisions with my manager or members of management, and my work has influenced outcomes.
 During meetings, I have discussed technical issues or served as a point of contact for information.
 I have some experience presenting technical information.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks.


15.
From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)
 A. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 F. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 G. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal.
 H. None of the above.


16.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙