Position Title
Boiler Plant Equipment Mechanic
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-12989824-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Boiler Plant Equipment Mechanic, WG-5309-10 position with Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Boiler Plant Equipment Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex boiler plant equipment mechanics such as installing, maintaining, and repairing boiler plant system components. I am skilled in testing the operation of power boiler systems in order to identify malfunctions and potential problems. I can complete preventative maintenance on boiler plant systems and equipment such as boiler feed pumps, fuel oil pumps, and air compressors. I can install insulation on various steam and chill water lines dealing with steam boilers. I am skilled in the operation of a service truck/utility vehicle. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of installing, trouble-shooting and maintaining complicated steam, hot water and forced air heating units and systems in buildings and facilities. I am skilled in the operation of a service truck/utility vehicle. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common installing and maintaining complicated steam, hot water and forced air heating units and systems in buildings and facilities. I can operate a service truck/utility vehicle. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple installation of hot water and forced air heating units and systems in buildings and facilities.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙