Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (INFOSEC/NETWORK)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12930383-AF-26-003-C Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Air National Guard or a military member who is eligible to become a member of the OHANG?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E-5 through E-6?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below?
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
OR

Do you possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to GS09 gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT and that has equipped you with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.

Performs cyberspace operations that protect and defend (or assess the capability to protect and defend) information and information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation. Provides for mission assurance of information systems by incorporating protection, detection, and reaction capabilities.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙