Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator Supervisor
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-13046476-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Incumbent is required to have and maintain a Class "A" or Class "B" Commercial Driver License. Do you have and can you maintain a Class "A" or Class "B" Commercial Driver License?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Engineering Equipment Operator Supervisor position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equipment Operator Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex supervisory duties such as overseeing and assigning tasks to other employees in accomplishing trades and labor work associated with Engineering Equipment Operation field, passing on instructions, procedures, determining priorities and establishing deadlines. I am skilled in demonstrating work procedures, reviewing completed work performed by others, making determinations for required equipment, supplies and maintenance to ensure availability and avoid delays, identifying training needs, providing counseling to employees when problems arise, reviewing job descriptions and participating in interviews to recommend selections. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties on a temporary basis to include overseeing and assigning tasks to other employees in accomplishing trades and labor work associated with Engineering Equipment Operation field, passing on instructions, procedures, determining priorities and establishing deadlines. I am skilled in demonstrating work procedures, reviewing completed work performed by others, making determinations for required equipment, supplies and maintenance to ensure availability and avoid delays, identifying training needs, providing counseling to employees when problems arise, and participating in interviews to recommend selections. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common supervisory duties on a temporary basis to include overseeing and assigning tasks to other employees in accomplishing trades and labor work associated with Engineering Equipment Operation field, passing on instructions, procedures, determining priorities and establishing deadlines. I am skilled in demonstrating work procedures, reviewing completed work performed by others, making determinations for required equipment, supplies and maintenance to ensure availability and avoid delays, identifying training needs, providing counseling to employees when problems arise. I work under normal supervisor of branch chief.
 I have the ability to perform common supervisory duties on a temporary basis to include overseeing and assigning tasks to other employees in accomplishing trades and labor work associated with Engineering Equipment Operation field
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙