Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Community Recreation)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0135 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Mar 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the options that best fits your qualification
 I have 1 full year of graduate level education
 I have 2 years of specialized experience in Recreation showing progressive responsibilities (for example: 2 years in at least NF-02 level or 2 years of experience in recreation with at least one year at the GS-5 level)
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you able to provide proof that you are able to work in the United States?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have in community recreation projects and programs?
 Over 3 years of experience
 1-3 years of experience
 6 - 12 months experience
 I have no experience


4.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 Over 3 years
 1 - 3 years
 6 - 12 months
 I have no experience


5.
Please select the skills and experience that are applicable to you.
 A. Experience in organizing special events, i.e. 4th of July, Friendship Day, Winterfest, etc.
 B. Computer applications: Word, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint
 C. Experience in marketing Community Recreation programs or events
 D. Experience in operating point of sale (POS) system
 E. Cash handling experience
 F. Checking in/out equipment or materials
 G. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙