Position Title
Management and Program Analysis Officer (Director, API)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-IMP-26-12952430 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
I am currently employed as a permanent, career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service, HOWEVER, I have not held the full performance level of this position.
Note: Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1")
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you wish to be considered under a CTAP (Career Transition Assistance Plan) eligibility? You may qualify for CTAP eligibility if all of the statements apply to you:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy.
You have been (or will be) involuntarily separated from the agency advertising this position, due to a reduction-in-force.
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position separated from.
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position separated from.
Your last performance rating of record is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
For more information about CTAP, please see the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility for CTAP:
You must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must also submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing position, tenure code, grade & step, and full name/DOB/SSN.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am a current or former, permanent, Federal employee in the competitive service WITH the SAME or HIGHER full performance level of this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the competitive service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the competitive service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former competitive service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Little Rock, AR
 F. Monterey Park, CA
 G. San Diego, CA
 H. San Francisco, CA
 I. Denver, CO
 J. Washington, DC
 K. Jacksonville, FL
 L. Miami, FL
 M. Tallahassee, FL
 N. Atlanta, GA
 O. Chicago, IL
 P. Springfield, IL
 Q. Des Moines, IA
 R. Baton Rouge, LA
 S. Baltimore, MD
 T. Boston, MA
 U. Jefferson City, MO
 V. Kansas City, MO
 W. Trenton, NJ
 X. Albany, NY
 Y. New York, NY
 Z. Columbus, OH
 AA. Oklahoma City, OK
 AB. Harrisburg, PA
 AC. Philadelphia, PA
 AD. Columbia, SC
 B. Austin, TX
 C. Dallas, TX
 D. Seattle, WA
 E. Madison, WI


Assessment 1
Respond to the following questions. Select only one response for each question. Any experience claimed in response to the following question MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for the Supervisory Program and Management Analysis Officer, GS-0343-15 position.

 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate experience: 1. Leading or co-leading, monitoring, and evaluating projects focused on ensuring timely, high-quality completion of audit projects nationwide; 2. Applying analytical techniques to evaluate program operations, performance metrics, and resource utilization to improve efficiency and effectiveness; 3. Contributing to data/IT modernization (requirements gathering, process mapping, testing) to streamline audit workflows and enable data informed decisions by leadership; 4. Assisting in the development, documentation, and roll out of audit planning policies/procedures and participating in quality control activities consistent with GAO Government Auditing Standards (Yellow Book) and OMB guidance; 5. Preparing analyses, briefings, and recommendations for senior leaders on audit priorities, resource alignment, or operational performance; participating in inter office workgroups to address process improvements; AND 6. Leading teams and coordinating project work streams (assigning tasks, tracking deliverables, resolving issues) to produce timely, high quality outputs.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙