Position Title
Lock and Dam Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13027053-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Calion, AR
 B. Felsenthal, AR
 C. Columbia, LA
 D. Coushatta, LA
 E. Pineville, LA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lock and Dam Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Lock and Dam Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Lock and Dam duties, such as : serving as a shift lead at a lock and dam facility during assigned shift; being responsible for project security and the use of the lock by issuing instructions to tow boat captains and other craft operators; setting of precedence of entry; and maintaining proper procedural operation. I am skilled in determining the specific actions to take during breakdowns of equipment, delays in operation, and accidents; relaying information or passing on instructions to the next shift as appropriate; and utilizing a computer to input lock usage data. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Lock and Dam duties, such as: operating lock and dam equipment where lock and dam gates and valves are electrically or hydraulically controlled, providing locking instructions to others when needed, determining whether craft desiring lockage can be locked safely. I am skilled in reading, interpreting and following operating instructions for most equipment without supervisory assistance; recognizing and avoiding potential work hazards; and performing repairs necessary to keep the lock in operation. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some Lock and Dam duties, such as: operating electrically or hydraulically controlled lock and dam equipment. I can make minor repairs to lock and dam equipment; apply locking procedures, policies, and laws regarding traffic right-of-way, sequence of operations and safe passage of hazardous commodities and damaged crafts; and comply with governing safety practices and procedures. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common Lock and Dam duties or I have received training to perform operations to electrically or hydraulically controlled equipment, maintenance, and repair activities from skills acquired from working on navigation locks, facilities, ground, or equipment.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance or repair tasks or I have received training in this area.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙