Position Title
Director, Office of Compliance and Enforcement
Agency
Food and Drug Administration
Announcement Number
CTP-SES-2026-12933937 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?
You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


2.

===== Acknowledgement of Restrictions on the Employment of Relatives by Public Officials =====
5 U.S. Code, § 3110 lays out specific and important restrictions on the employment of relatives within an agency.
A public official of a government agency may not appoint, promote, or otherwise advocate for the employment, advancement, or promotion of relatives within the agency for which the public official is employed or has control over.
Employees hired in violation of 5 U.S. Code, § 3110 will not be entitled to any pay for their period of employment, and any pay already received before the violation becomes known, will be considered as a debt to the government on the part of the employed individual.

For the purpose of this question, a "relative" is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

QUESTION:
After having read the definition of "relative" as stated above, does the Food and Drug Administration employ any of your relatives?

IF YES: You must provide the following information, for each relative employed by the FDA:

The full legal name of the relative.
The relative's relationship to you (from the list above).
If known, the relative's employing organization and position.
IF NO: Please type "No" in the box below.


3.
Your responses to the all questions, and any information or documentation which you provide as part of your application, will be thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and truthfulness. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, your application will not be considered. Knowingly providing false information in your application (or submitted documentation) is a crime!
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
I understand that if I intentionally make a false statement, or commit deception or fraud in my application, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC, Sec 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR, Part 731).
I understand that any information I provide may be investigated.
I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Do you accept the conditions above?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Assessment
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



1.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience which qualifies you for a Senior Executive Position?
 I have the specialized experience outlined in the Qualifications Requirements Section of this vacancy announcement.
 I do not have the specialized experience as outlined in the Qualification Requirements section of this vacancy announcement.


2.
Are you a current career Senior Executive, qualification review board certified graduate of an SES candidate development program or an individual with SES reinstatement eligibility who meets the mandatory qualifications requirement?

 Yes, I am a current career Senior Executive, qualification review board certified graduate of an SES candidate development program or an individual with SES reinstatement eligibility who meets the mandatory qualifications requirement.
 No, I am not a current career Senior Executive, qualification review board certified graduate of an SES candidate development program or an individual with SES reinstatement eligibility who meets the mandatory qualifications requirement.


3.
Please select from the choices below regarding the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.

 I am currently serving as a Commissioned Corps Officer and am interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps.
 I am currently serving as a Commissioned Corps Officer and am interested in applying for this position to serve in the Senior Executive Service.
 I am not currently serving as a Commissioned Corps Officer.


4.
A) Do you have bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in quality assurance or a related degree that included at least 30 semester hours in one or a combination of the following: consumer laws, biological sciences, food science, chemistry, pharmacy, physical sciences, food technology, nutrition, medical science, engineering, epidemiology, veterinary medical science, legal investigations, law enforcement, or related scientific fields that provided knowledge directly related to consumer safety officer work? 

The 30 semester hours may include up to 8 semester hours in statistics, or course work that included the principles, theory, or practical application of computers or computer programming.

OR

B) A combination of education and experience--courses consisting of at least 30 semester hours in the fields of study described in paragraph A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. 

To meet specialized experience requirements, the applicant's work experience must have demonstrated the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary to perform at the grade level of the position.  Qualifying experience involves enforcing laws and regulations to protect consumers from foods, drugs, cosmetics, fabrics, toys, equipment, and household products that are defective, dangerous, impure, unwholesome, ineffective, or improperly or deceptively labeled or packaged.

You must submit transcripts to support your claim.

 I meet the education described in Section A.
 I meet the combination of education and experience described in Section B.
 No, I don't meet either requirement in Section A or B.


5.
Experience that demonstrates strong leadership abilities in a scientific, regulatory, or public health organization; demonstrated ability to develop program goals and strategic/tactical priorities; demonstrated ability to develop, direct and/or guide long-term and short-term projects and to conduct periodic program assessments.
 Yes, I meet this qualification.
 No, I do not meet this qualification.


6.
Demonstrated ability to work effectively across organizational lines and beyond to build strong working relationships among people and organizations with diverse interests and/or opinions.
 Yes, I meet this qualification.
 No, I do not meet this qualification.


7.
Knowledge and understanding of the provisions, limitations, and practical application of laws and regulations in a public health context.
 Yes, I meet this qualification.
 No, I do not meet this qualification.


8.
Below are the five Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs). Please respond below to the questionnaire below indicating if you meet the ECQs. 
ECQ 1: Commitment to the Rule of Law and the Principles of the American Founding: This core qualification requires a demonstrated knowledge of the American system of government, commitment to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law, and commitment to serve the American people.
ECQ 2: Driving Efficiency: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to strategically and efficiently manage resources, budget effectively, cut wasteful spending, and pursue efficiency through process and technological upgrades.
ECQ 3: Merit and Competence: This core qualification involves the demonstrated knowledge, ability and technical competence to effectively and reliably produce work that is of exceptional quality.
ECQ 4: Leading People: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to lead and inspire a group toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, and to drive a high performance, high-accountability culture. This includes, when necessary, the ability to lead people through change and to hold individuals accountable.
ECQ 5: Achieving Results: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to achieve both the individual and organizational results, and to align results to stated goals from superiors.
 Yes, I meet all five of the Executive Core Qualifications listed above.
 No, I do not meet all five of the Executive Core Qualification listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙