Position Title
Accounting Technician
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12873939 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 30, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Must be able to file and retrieve documents from filing cabinets up to shoulder level and is expected to assist with packing, filing and retrieving document files weighing up to 30 lbs.

Are you able to meet these physical demands?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an Accounting Technician, NF-0525-03 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have at least 1 year of general experience in (e.g. account structure, accounting terminology, detecting coding input errors and making corrective entries consistent with charts of accounts in an automated system) OR possess an Associate's degree in Accounting, Finance, Business Administration, or in a field directly related? (Must provide transcripts)
 Yes, I have an Associate's degree in a field as described above.
 Yes, I have experience as described above.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your experience with automated accounting systems?
 Three (3) or more years of experience
 One (1) to two (2) years of experience
 Less than one (1) year of experience
 No experience


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have documented experience working with calculators and computer applications?
 Yes
 No


4.
What is your experience processing accounting transactions?
 Five (5) or more years of experience
 Three (3) to four (4) years of experience
 One (1) to two (2) years of experience
 Less than one (1) year of experience
 No experience


5.
What is your experience analyzing and reconciling accounts?
 Five (5) or more years of experience
 Three (3) to four (4) years of experience
 One (1) to two (2) years of experience
 Less than one (1) year of experience
 No experience


6.
Please mark the forms or processes you have documented experience with:
 A. Inventory
 B. Invoices
 C. Purchase orders
 D. Transfer documents
 E. Journal entries
 F. Point of sale transactions (POS)
 G. Vouchers
 H. Daily activity record summaries
 I. I have no experience with any of the forms and processes listed above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙