Position Title
Forestry Technician (Recreation)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-R10-12970577-AT-MM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are eligible for this position.


This announcement is to fill Forestry Technician, GS-0462-05, positions in the excepted service under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) hiring authority, Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Eligibility for the position under this hiring authority is determined by your knowledge of natural and cultural resources in the local area. You must have lived or worked in or near the geographic boundaries of the Tongass National Forest and have special knowledge or expertise concerning the cultural and/or natural resources of this area to apply.


1.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your ability to meet the Eligibility Requirements for Forestry Technician positions filled through this announcement.

 I have lived or worked in or near the geographic boundaries of the Tongass National Forest and have special knowledge or expertise concerning the cultural and/or natural resources of the Southeast Alaska area.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


You must possess knowledge or expertise of the Tongass National Forest area to participate in local natural resource management activities. Your responses to the following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for all positions filled through this announcement. Please provide full details when responding to the questions to include the location in the local area where you gained the expertise or knowledge and specifics about that expertise or knowledge.


If you are applying to any grade level of this Forestry Technician announcement, you must answer all the following questions.


2.
Have you lived or worked in the geographic boundaries of the Tongass National Forest in Southeast Alaska?



3.
If you answered yes to the question above, you must provide the name of the city along with month and year of start and end dates of each period you lived in that city. If you lived in multiple cities, list start and date periods separately and indicate which city you lived in for each period listed.



4.
Tell us about your experience hiking, camping, fishing, hunting, or participating in other activities on public lands in Southeast Alaska. Provide details about the types of activities you participated in and where they occurred.



5.
Tell us about your experience participating in subsistence gathering, hunting, and/or fishing or other customary and traditional uses/cultural resource activities you have participated in on public lands of Southeast Alaska. Provide details about the activities you participated in and the general area where they occurred.



6.
What do you know about bear habitat and behavior in Southeast Alaska?



7.
How do you ensure safety when recreating or working in bear-populated areas?



8.
Describe your knowledge of the cultural history of Southeast Alaska (general to an area/region or specific to a place).



9.
How did you gain this knowledge (e.g., cultural stories, learning from elders, community members)



10.
What trails or recreation sites in Southeast Alaska are you familiar with? Please include:
• Location of the trailhead or site
• What you enjoy about it
• Any improvements you think are needed.



11.
What do you know about fish and wildlife species in Southeast Alaska? Include:
• Species names and typical habitat
• How you gained this knowledge
• Any other relevant details.



12.
What advice would you share with visitors to Southeast Alaska regarding the climate and how they can prepare when planning a trip. Include:
• Typical weather conditions by season
• Recommended clothing and gear for planned activities.



13.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙