Position Title
Audit Director - Field Operations Review Team
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
IA-25-77A-12799117-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2025 to Oct 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current career United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG) employee?  All others are ineligible on this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Important Note: Duty location will be assigned based on space availability at the time of selection.


1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Carol Stream, IL
 C. Bethesda, MD
 D. Woburn, MA
 E. Saint Charles, MO
 F. Raleigh, NC
 G. Dallas, TX
 H. Arlington, VA


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Employees Only
 
This announcement is open internally to current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (OIG) career employees only.
All others (non-postal employees) are ineligible for this announcement and must apply to announcement #: 12805539.

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for this position.


Reach out to your HR Analyst or submit an HR Help Desk ticket for assistance.
 I am a current USPS OIG employee and will submit my PS50 with my application.
 I am not a current USPS OIG employee.


2.
Education/Experience Requirement (0511 Auditor Series)

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.

Refer to the following list of acceptable related degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to: Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a degree in auditing or a related field from the provided list, such as accounting, business administration, finance, or public administration from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in performance auditing or an equivalent combination of auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) certification obtained through written examination, or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional Auditing Experience Qualification Requirement

Please select which matches your level of professional experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional, full-time performance/program auditing experience that includes planning and conducting audits, evaluations, or inspections.
 More than four (4) years but less than five (5) years of professional, full-time performance/program auditing experience that includes planning and conducting audits, evaluations, or inspections.
 At least five (5) years of professional, full-time performance/program auditing experience that includes planning and conducting audits, evaluations, or inspections.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described in the announcement.


4.
Management and Leadership Experience Requirement

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the management/leadership requirements for this position.
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of full-time, professional experience leading teams and projects.
 At least two (2) years or more of full-time, professional experience leading teams and projects.
 I do not meet the management and leadership requirement for this announcement.


5.
GS-14 Experience Requirement

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the GS-14 equivalent experience requirement for this position.
 I have less than one (1) year (52-weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level.
 I have at least one (1) year (52-weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level.
 I do not have experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have a CIA, CISA, or CFE Professional Certification(s)? (You must submit a copy of the certification. Not required)
 Yes
 No


7.
In-Office Requirement

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Duty location will be assigned based on space availability at the time of selection. 

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


8.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation

This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
Cover Letter
Performance Appraisal
PS-50 (ask your HR Analyst or submit a KCE Help Desk ticket for assistance)
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Certification of Accuracy:


Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙