Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-P4-26-12983602-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Palmdale, CA
 B. Orlando, FL
 C. Fort Lee, VA


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Manager position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-03 or GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Obtaining, analyzing, and disseminating commodity specific information, to include past, current, and future program performance data, integrated supply chain information risk and predictability, and other business or technical issues, Ensuring that strategic plans, mission/vision, and values are defined and communicated and integrated into a team's strategies, goals, objectives, work plans, work products and services, Providing integrated technical guidance and assistance to a wide range of major and non-major acquisition programs.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
Advise on work methods, balancing workload, interviewing candidates, and developing performance standards- are all primary components on what core responsibility?
 Leadership and Performance Management
 Strategic Policy Development
 Technical Program Integration
 Budget Formulation and Analysis


3.
Which of the following best summarizes the group of tasks that includes coaching a team, managing workload distribution, hiring, and appraising employee performance?
 Financial Oversight
 Stakeholder Relations
 Team Leadership and Development
 Regulatory Compliance


4.
Provide advice on work methods, distributing tasks, interviewing candidates, and conducting performance appraisals collectively highlight which essential aspect of the Program Manager role?
 A. Financial and Budgetary Oversight
 B. Supervisory Leadership and Team Management
 C. Technical Systems Integration
 D. Personnel and Talent Management
 E. Strategic Policy Development


5.
The duties of formulating organizational strategies and budgets for resource allocation, optimizing and managing project resources, developing tracking tools for performance analysis and integrating innovative approaches to minimize expenditures primarily fall under which key area?
 Policy Interpretation and Dissemination
 Strategic Resource Management and Optimization
 External Stakeholder Engagement
 Technical Systems Intergration


6.
Which of the following best encapsulates the responsibilities involving the formulation of resource acquisition plans, optimization of project resources, and the development of tools for budgeting and performance analysis?
 Customer Relationship Management
 Financial Compliance and Auditing
 Programmatic Resources Planning and Control
 Personnel Development and Training


7.
The actions of creating strategic plans for resource allocation, optimizing resource utilization, and innovating to achieve goals while minimizing costs are central to the Program Manager's function in:
 A. Day-to-day team supervision
 B. Driving Fiscal Responsibility and Strategic Planning
 C. Customer relationship management
 D. Technical systems development
 E. Effective Resource Management and Optimization


8.
The responsibilities of developing effectiveness metrics, synthesizing program data, resolving customer problems, and serving as a focal point for supplier audits are all essential functions of what core duty?
 Program Analysis and Strategic Oversight
 Routine Administrative Support
 Human Resources Management
 Direct Technical Implementation


9.
Which of the following choices best describes the group of tasks that includes formulating risk mitigation strategies, resolving conflicts in customer requirements, and leading process improvement initiatives with suppliers?
 A. Internal Communications and Reporting
 B. Stakeholder and Supply Chain Management
 C. Information Technology and Systems Support
 D. Employee Onboarding and Training
 E. Risk Management and Customer Relations


10.
The actions of establishing supply chain metrics, evaluating program effectiveness and trends, and working with management-level customers to resolve issues are central to the Program Manager's role in:
 Managing day-to-day office logistics
 Ensuring program performance and customer satisfaction
 Processing payroll and employee benefits
 Developing marketing and sales materials


11.
Describing a specialized skill in synthesizing and evaluating programmatic and administrative issues. What is the primary application of this skill?
 Handling routine administrative tasks.
 Directing technical support staff only.
 Providing high-level analysis and advice that impacts decisions made by senior executives within the DCMA and DoW.
 Managing individual employee training records.


12.
Which of the following responsibilities best synthesizes the actions of maintaining product awareness, determining workload adjustments, and preparing major organizational reports for internal and external distribution?
 A. Daily Administrative Support
 B. Programmatic Oversight and Strategic Communication
 C. Individual Task Execution and Data Entry
 D. Operational Alignment and Information Dissemination
 E. Direct Customer Service and Support


13.
Program Manager's capacity to integrate supply chain information and approve critical organizational reports directly contributes to the their ability to:
 Manage Cafeteria services.
 Ensure compliance with basic safety regulations.
 Provide complex programs with informed decision-making and clear communication.
 Organize social events for staff.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙