Position Title
Director, Division of Investigations
Agency
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
FERC-OERA-ES-26-13033522 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the option that best reflects how you first learned about this vacancy.
 A job search platform (not USAJobs)
 Referral from a FERC employee
 University or Professional Career Fair
 FERC Careers on Social Media (LinkedIn, X, Facebook and/or Instagram)
 FERC Website (www.FERC.gov)
 Email from a FERC Recruiter
 USAJOBS Search
 Other


2.
Based on your selection above, please provide additional information (which website, name of the FERC employee, which career fair, which social media page, etc).


3.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)?
 Yes
 No


5.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.
 Yes
 No


6.
Does the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission employ any member of your family? Family is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.
 Yes
 No


7.
Please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed, and location if known.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I understand with the submission of my application that I meet the minimum requirements for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
In order to meet the minimum qualifications as an Attorney-Advisor, you must have a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (L.L.B.) from an accredited school AND must have a current, active bar membership.  Admission to the bar of any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court is acceptable.
 I meet the educational and bar membership requirements as outlined above.
 I do not meet the educational and bar membership requirements as outlined above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙