Position Title
Pressman (OFFSET/LEPE/COPEPAK/SCREEN/IFS)
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12894535-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the statement that best describes your level of experience.
 I have experience working as a Journeyman/Lead Pressperson, operating a large format, high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Presses, without direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive only general instructions on new work and report only unique situations to the supervisor.
 I have experience working as a Pressperson, operating a large format, high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Presses, with direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive instructions from a lead Pressperson.
 I have experience working as a 2nd Pressperson, assisting in a large format, high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Presses, with direct supervision. I perform tasks that require me to make changes to accommodate work requirements and priorities. I receive instructions from a lead Pressperson.
 I am currently in a training program learning to operate a large format high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Press with direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive instruction from a lead Pressperson.
 None of the above.


2.
 This experience must be clearly documented in your resume, indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
Select the level of experience you have setting up a press from scratch.
 I perform a complete Make Ready setting all ink levels, inspection settings, check registration, assess fit and step and repeat, and set feeder and delivery without direct supervision.
 I assist a journeyman on a Make Ready setting ink levels, inspection settings, checking registration, assessing fit and step and repeat, and setting feeder and delivery with direct supervision.
 I am in a training program learning the steps in a Make Ready including setting all ink levels, inspection settings, check registration, assess fit and step and repeat, and set feeder and delivery and only perform under direct supervision.
 I have no experience completing a Make Ready on a large format press.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience determining the correct ink rotation and placement of plates.
 I have experience determining the correct ink rotation and placement of plates and am consulted by other Journeymen or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs.
 I have experience determining the correct ink rotation and placement of plates requiring 4 color process.
 I have experience determining the correct ink rotation and placement of plates requiring 4 color process with additional PMS colors.
 I have studied ink rotation and placement of plates but have no experience applying it on the job.
 None of the above.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your experience editing press configuration programs to accommodate specific jobs.
 I have experience editing press configuration programs and am consulted by other Journeymen or am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
 I have experience editing press configuration programs to accommodate specific jobs, including set-up, back pressure, and sheet size for feeder and delivery.
 I have experience editing press configuration programs to accommodate specific jobs including set-up, inspection systems, number of print units, ink keys, registration, back pressure, and sheet size for feeder and delivery.
 I have studied editing press configuration programs but have no experience applying it on the job.
 None of the above.


6.
Select the response that best describes your experience making adjustments related to mechanical registration.


 I have experience making adjustments at the infeed.
 I have experience making all adjustments related to mechanical registration and am consulted by other Journeymen or am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
 I have experience making adjustments at the console, infeed, and manually at the print unit.
 I have studied making adjustments related to mechanical registration but have no experience applying it on the job.
 None of the above.


7.
Select ALL of the following kinds of presses with which you have experience.
 A. Large Format Sheet/Web fed Press over 38
 B. Small format Sheet/Web fed Press under 38
 C. Large Format Letterpress over 38
 D. Small Format Letterpress under 38
 E. Digital Press
 F. High Speed Copier machines
 G. None of the above


8.
This presses experience must be clearly documented in your resume to include detail of equipment if applicable. In the space below, please indicate where we can find this information in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


9.
What level of hands-on experience do you have monitoring a Printing Press while operating and printing product?
 I monitor a large format press during runs with no direct supervision that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 I monitor a large format press during runs with direct supervision of a journeyman pressman that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 I am in training on the process of how to monitor a large format press during runs under direct supervision that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.


10.
 Pease select ALL of the following tasks you have completed while making ready/setting up a Printing Press for production of a printed product.
 A. Installing large format Plates
 B. Aligning large format plates
 C. Installing blankets and packing used in press
 D. Adjusting cylinder pressure
 E. None of the above


11.
Please select ALL of the following tasks you have completed while making ready/setting up a Printing Press for production of a printed product.
 A. Adjusting electronic ink keys
 B. Adjusting the feeder
 C. Setting the ink rollers
 D. Adjusting the delivery
 E. None of the above


12.
Do you have experience making adjustments to a Printing Press according to manufacturer specifications while in production, printing product?
 I make adjustments to large format printing press as a Journeyman without direct supervision within manufacturer specifications while in production.
 I assist a Journeyman in making adjustments to a large format press and am under direct supervision when making changes within manufacturer specifications while in production.
 I am in training on how to make adjustments to a large format printing press but have not performed the tasks independently or under supervision of a journeyman.


13.
If yes, indicate where we can find this experience in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


14.
Select all of the following computerized equipment software packages you have experience using.
 A. Flexography
 B. Lithography Numbering/Letterpress
 C. Block printing
 D. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


15.
Do you have experience with the color printing process?
 Yes
 No


16.
If yes, select the number of colors you have printing experience using in production.
 A. Three color
 B. Four color
 C. Six color or more
 D. None of the above


17.
Do you have experience troubleshooting the cause of defective printing while operating a Printing Press?
 As a journeyman I perform troubleshooting steps including checking ink levels, print setting, plate position, basic equipment issues, etc. without direct supervision.
 I assist a journeyman in performing troubleshooting steps including checking ink levels, print settings, plate position, basic equipment issues, etc. but only under direct supervision.
 I am in a training program learning how to troubleshoot causes of defective printing that occurs during the printing process. I have not performed these outside of a training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


18.
Do you have experience utilizing tools and monitoring devices to maintain quality standards during production on Large Format Presses?
 Yes
 No


19.
Do you have experience running and using an online Inspection Equipment while operating a Printing Press in production?
 Yes
 No


20.
This online inspection experience must be clearly documented in your resume to include detail of equipment if applicable. In the space below, please indicate where we can find this information in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


21.
 Do you have experience using tools to maintain equipment as prescribed by manufacturer specifications in a production environment?
 Yes
 No


22.
Select ALL of the following tasks you have completed.
 A. Using tools to maintain a Large Format Web fed Press over 38.
 B. Using tools to maintain a small format Web fed Press under 38.
 C. Using tools to maintain Large Format Letterpress over 38.
 D. Using tools to maintain a Small Format Letterpress under 38.
 E. Using tools to maintain a Digital Press.
 F. Using tools to maintain a High-Speed Copier machines.
 G. None of the above.


23.
Do you have experience using tools to maintain equipment as prescribed by manufacturer specifications in a production environment? (If yes, select ALL of the following tasks you have completed.
 A. Cleaning the press
 B. Making minor repairs
 C. Washing rollers
 D. Cleaning all printing surfaces
 E. None of the above


24.
Which of the following tools do you have experience using? Choose all that apply.
 A. Micrometers and Handheld densitometers.
 B. Chemicals for cleaning of inks and plates.
 C. Register Board.
 D. Ink thickness gauges.
 E. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙