Position Title
Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1542-AGFO-26-12934940-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Short Essay Questionnaire
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the permanent full-time Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to erase (unclick) the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items with more than one response or items that are left blank will not receive credit.


Your resume must include month/year to month/year and hours per week worked to receive credit for your work and/or volunteer experience. One year of specialized experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week. Part-time hours are prorated. You will not receive any credit for experience that does not indicate exact hours per week or is listed as "varies" and you could be found not qualified.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must document your degree in your resume. If your degree was not in one of the directly related fields listed in this response, you must submit a copy of your transcripts or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. We cannot determine eligibility without this.

 I possess one or more years of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level. Specialized experience in performing law enforcement duties for the protection, conservation, use, and management of natural and/or cultural resources in park areas or similar operations, which involved the application of law enforcement authorities and procedures to protect visitors and resources; management or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of policy related to the law enforcement or visitor protection in park areas or similar operations; or other similar work. Examples of specialized experience could include Park Guide or tour leader; law enforcement or investigative work; archeological or historical preservation research work; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to that of at least the GS-09 grade level in the federal service.
 I have at least three academic years of progressively higher level graduate study, a Ph.D., or equivalent graduate degree in directly-related fields such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled.
 Equivalent Combination of Graduate Education and Specialized Experience: I have not completed one full year of specialized experience as described above, or the three years of graduate study, or Ph.D. degree in a field directly related to the work of this position as shown in 1B above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. For example, I have 6 months of the specialized experience described in 1A above (50% of the experience requirement), and 45 semester hours or 68 quarter hours of directly related graduate level college study in an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


The following are selective factors which must be met and are required to move forward.


Law Enforcement Commission


2.
You must currently hold, previously held within the past three years, or be able to obtain before entering on duty, a National Park Service Type 1 Law Enforcement Commission. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. (Selective Factor).
 I currently hold, or have previously held, a FLETC issued Land Management Police Training (LMPT), full Level I law enforcement commission or equivalent within the past three years. (You must indicate your commission number and date, location and date of your last 40-hour refresher training, and the date of your last established proficiency in the use of firearms in your resume).
 I will successfully complete the above Level I Law Enforcement Training Program prior to entering on duty. (You must indicate your expected completion date in your resume).
 I do not have a Level I Law Enforcement Commission and will not be able to obtain one prior to entering on duty.


Requirement to Carry Firearm


3.
Required to carry a firearm while performing duties and required to maintain firearm proficiency and be subject to the Lautenberg Amendment. (Selective Factor)

 Yes, I understand it is a requirement to carry a firearm while performing the duties of park ranger and I am willing to maintain firearm proficiency annually.
 No, I do not agree to carry a firearm or willing to maintain firearm proficiency annually.


"Prior law enforcement experience, as gained by substantial service in a primary law enforcement officer position or equivalent experience outside the Federal government is a MANDATORY PREREQUISITE for incumbents of this position"


4.
This is a covered secondary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336(c)(CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). Applicants for this position must possess experience gained by substantial service in a primary law enforcemnt position. Please slect the response below which best describes ow you meet this requirement. (Selective Factor)
 I possess substantial documented experience in a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent documented experience outside the Federal government.
 I do not meet the primary law enforcement requirements for this position.


5.
You must meet physical fitness standards to maintain commission. (Selective Factor)
 Yes, I understand it is requirement to meet physical fitness standards and pass on an annual physical fitness test to maintain commission.
 No, I am not able to perform a physical fitness test annually.


Driver's License


6.
Driver's License (Seelctive Factor)
 Yes, I current hold a valid state license.
 No, I do not have a current Driver's License but will be able to obtain prior to EOD.
 No I do not have a Driver's License and will not be able to obtain one prior to EOD.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙