Position Title
Security Guard
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12839110-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 01, 2025 to Jan 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


All COE's
1.
I understand, if selected, as a Department of Army Security guard I must meet ALL the conditions of employment outlined in this announcement and listed below for continued employment.
Must be able to obtain and maintain a favorable T-3 level personal background investigation.
Must successfully pass a pre-employment and recurring medical examination (physical, emotional and mental stability).
Must complete and pass a pre-employment drug test and then annually through random testing thereafter.
Must meet requirements under 18 USC 922(g)(9) (The Lautenberg Amendment); and sign the DD Form 2760 (Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition)
"May" be subject to a one year probationary period unless requirement previously met as described in 5 CFR Part 315.
Position requires rotating shift work which may include fluctuating tours of duty to include evenings, weekends and holidays.
Position is designated as Mission Essential. In the event of a crisis situation or inclement weather, the incumbent must continue to perform the duties until relieved by proper authority.
Will be required to wear personal protective equipment.
Must successfully pass entry level and annual re-certification of physical fitness/ability test.
Must obtain and maintain CPR certification and First Aid training.
Must successfully complete the security guard training program.
Must be proficient in the use of assigned firearms/weapons, pass an initial qualification, and must qualify semi-annually thereafter in the use of assigned firearms/weapons
Must maintain requirements of the Individual Reliability Program (IRP) in accordance with AR 190-56, The Army Civilian Police and Security Guard Program.
Must possess and maintain a valid state driver's license.
Position requires wearing of prescribed uniform.
Must obtain certification for state law enforcement systems and National Crime Information Center (NCIC).
Must be able to perform as a member of the installation's overall security response capability. The duties and training require the employee to carry and deploy a riot baton, carry a protective shield and employ non-lethal ammunitions if necessary.
Must obtain certification in operating electronic equipment and sensors as part of access control.
Are you willing to complete and comply with all Conditions of Employment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Security Guard at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band with a federal, state, municipal, local, or private protective organization that involved the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass; or maintaining order and protecting life. Such experience must have provided a knowledge of protective systems and techniques.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙