Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12941810A-TSN-0343-7/9 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
EDUCATION/SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-07:
To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
- Performing studies and evaluating program operations for project/program changes and improvements to improve the effectiveness of line program options.
- Advising on employee/organizational efficiency and productivity by communicating technical and procedural information.
- Recommending changes to procedures and techniques that may influence administrative duties, including overtime, workflow, and work assignments
- Assists management in resolving administrative issues that affects the accuracy, quality, and timeliness of workload processes.

OR Education: One (1) year of graduate level education in a related field of study at an accredited college or university.
OR Superior Academic Achievement may be met by having a bachelor's degree, with one of the following: A GPA of 2.95 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study,
or a GPA of 3.45 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study,
or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.

To be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled.
OR Combination Of Education And Experience: A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to the amount required.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education at an accredited college or university as defined above.
 I meet at least one of the Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) requirements as described above.
 I have one (1) year of combined qualifying education and specialized experience as defined above.
 None of the above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-09:
To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
- Conducting studies and preparing reports on staffing requirements and/or training needs that may include management and statistical data to resolve workflow issues.
- Reviewing program staffing to identify changes to procedures to improve administrative measures; studies employee/organizational efficiency to recommend changes.
- Providing feedback to management on day-to-day sensitive or confidential matters in addressing routine employee issues and concerns.
- Providing guidance for various analytical studies to resolve substantive problems or improve effectiveness and efficiency of operating line or administrative support programs.
- Preparing comprehensive program analyses and evaluations pertaining to the effectiveness of program operations.
- Developing changes in methods and conducting studies of employee/organizational efficiency and productivity.
- Planning, coordinating, and establishing operating methods and procedures for the accomplishment of project mission.

OR Education: Two (2) full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in any field of study from an accredited college or university.
OR A master's or equivalent graduate degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university.
OR LL.B. or J.D., if related.
OR Combination of Education and Experience: A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to that described above.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to degree in a related field of study.
 I have two (2) full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in a related field of study as described above.
 I have an LL.B. or J.D. in a related field.
 I have one (1) year of combined qualifying education and specialized experience as defined above.
 None of the above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙