Position Title
Contract Specialist (Direct Hire)- French Language Requirement
Agency
American Battle Monuments Commission
Announcement Number
DHA-12904144-2026-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
Supporting documents, you are required to submit: validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.
*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application:
A copy of your agency notice; AND,
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,
A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition. 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-13 (FPL 14) position with American Battle Monument Commission.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
Have you read the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement and understand that your resume must include all specific information as outlined, such as 1) personal information such as name, address, contact information; 2) education; 3) detailed work experience related to this position as described in the major duties including work schedule, hours worked per week, dates of employment (month/year); title, If including Federal service experience, provide pay plan, series and grade, i.e. GS-0301-09, other qualifications. We recommend that your resume not exceed five (5) pages, only the first five (5) pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications, and do you understand that failure to submit all required information or legible documents prior to the closing date of the announcement will result in loss of consideration?
 Yes, I have read the Required Documents section and do understand that if I fail to apply correctly, I may lose consideration.
 No, I have not read the Required Documents section.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires you to be able to obtain and maintain a background investigation and/or security clearance prior to employment. Are you willing and able to complete any requirements necessary for such investigations? Do you understand and acknowledge that if you are selected for employment but fail to meet these requirements, any job offers may be withdrawn?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires you to be able to speak and read French. If you are selected as a candidate, your language ability will be professionally evaluated at Agency expense prior to interview to confirm that you meet the minimum requirements as stated in the announcement. The Agency may communicate with applicants during the application process in French. Your resume must clearly identify with your language proficiency and confirm your responses to the assessment questionnaire, or you may not be considered for this position.
 Yes, I can speak and read French as defined in the minimum requirements as stated in the announcement.
 No, I cannot speak and read French as defined in the minimum requirements as stated in the announcement.


4.
Have you completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management? (Note: In order to be considered, you must submit a copy of your college transcript(s) (unofficial is acceptable) that include(s) the number of semester or quarter hours completed.)
 Yes, I have the required education listed above (must upload your transcripts)
 I do not have the required education listed above.
 I am exempt from this requirement as I am a Federal, GS-1102 employee that met the standard for the 1102 position I occupied on January 1, 2000.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in Federal service which includes: performing a full range of pre-award and post-award contracting functions for a wide range of supplies and services, which must include Architect-Engineering (A-E) services and construction contracts.
 I do not have the required specialized experience listed above


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in Federal service which includes: Serving as a contract specialist for a significant system or program, involving a range of contract specializations such as negotiation, cost and price analysis, and administration; planning, developing, and establishing contractual strategy for assigned acquisition programs; serving as a contracting advisor or subject matter expert to program officials and to program management office; resolving complex contractual issues, claims, and termination settlements in accordance with established procedures.
 I do not have the required specialized experience listed above.


7.
Incumbent must possess, or be able to obtain and maintain, a Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) or equivalent, within one (1) year of employment with ABMC, as required for delegation and maintenance of Contracting Officer warrant authority.

 I have the Federal Acquisition Certification in Contraction (FAC-C) (Professional) or equivalent and understand that I must maintain the certificatn. (Must upload Certification)
 I do not have the Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) or equivalent but understand that I must obtain and maintain the certification within one year of my entance on duty date or I may be terminated from the position.
 I am unable to obtain and maintain the Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) or equivalent.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (Al) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


8.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


9.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


10.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


11.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙