Position Title
PHYSICAL SECURITY SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12998865-AF-26-198 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 171st Air Refueling Wing
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 171st Air Refueling Wing (This includes 258th ATCS, 146 Weather Flight, 146 ARS, and 147 ARS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E7 in any branch of service?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines and its applicable Security Series career level? The seven organizational program disciplines are Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism, Information Protection Security, Physical Security, Security Forces, Security Training, Security Unit Deployment Manager, and Special Security Office Security. Do you possess the ability to follow directions, to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures? Do you have the ability or have endorsements that indicate the ability to learn and perform the cited position's duties?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 24 months experience in the security career field, to include technical training schools and drill-status working experience? Do you have knowledge on the management and administration of the Intrusion Detection System program? Do you have experience in advising supervisor of any base or site activities that may impact the Integrated Base Defense Security Systems program? Are you skilled in completing reports and documents the Intrusion Detection System program maintenance requirements to the servicing maintenance organization? Do you have experience in monitoring Intrusion Detection System false and nuisance alarms and knowledgeable on how to request assistance from the maintenance organization to resolve problems and deficiency? Do you have experience on coordinating with maintenance and materiel management functions to ensure sufficient spare parts and maintenance is available to support the Integrated Base Defense Security Systems equipment and component? Are you capable of maintaining and using Technical Orders and commercial manuals that describe equipment components and operating procedures for Intrusion Detection System program?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙