Position Title
Student Trainee
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
ERO-12932432-DE-PW Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a student that has been accepted for enrollment or are enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate? You must remain enrolled and will be required to provide proof of current student status to be eligible for this program.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mesa, AZ
 P. Phoenix, AZ
 Q. Tucson, AZ
 R. El Centro, CA
 S. Los Angeles, CA
 T. Sacramento, CA
 U. San Diego, CA
 V. San Francisco, CA
 W. Santa Ana, CA
 X. Centennial, CO
 Y. Hartford, CT
 Z. Washington, DC
 AA. Miami, FL
 AB. Orlando, FL
 AC. Atlanta, GA
 AD. Glynco, GA
 AE. Chicago, IL
 AF. New Orleans, LA
 AG. Oakdale, LA
 AH. Baltimore, MD
 AI. Burlington, MA
 AJ. Detroit, MI
 AK. Fort Snelling, MN
 AL. Las Vegas, NV
 AM. Newark, NJ
 AN. Buffalo, NY
 B. New York, NY
 C. Charlotte, NC
 D. Oklahoma County, OK
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Dallas, TX
 G. El Paso, TX
 H. Harlingen, TX
 I. Houston, TX
 J. San Antonio, TX
 K. West Valley City, UT
 L. Williston, VT
 M. Chantilly, VA
 N. Richmond, VA
 O. Seattle, WA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 Yes
 No


5.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'.


Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
The minimum qualification requirement for this position is one full academic year of post-high school study. One full academic year is described as a minimum of 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours at an accredited college or university, and/or a minimum of 36 weeks at an accredited business, technical, vocational, or qualifying educational institution for at least 20 classroom hours per week. Do you possess at least one full academic year of post-high school study?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙