Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Program Director)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12995651 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How many years of knowledge and experience do you have documented on your resume managing all daily operations of comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs to include: planning, creating programs, scheduling, training a team, hiring, coordinating, hosting, and maintaining assessments for all programs?
 I have three or more years documented knowledge and/or experience managing all daily operations of the comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs.
 I have less than three years documented knowledge and/or experience managing all daily operations of the comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience managing all daily operations of the comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs.


2.
How much knowledge of NAF and/or APF budgeting processes do you have? (must be documented in on your resume)

 
 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in preparing and managing budgeting for multiple activities
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in preparing and managing budgeting for multiple activities
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in preparing and managing budgeting for multiple activities


3.
Are you available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events?

 Yes, I am available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events
 No, I am not available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events


4.
Do you have required communication skills to coordinate from installation to community organizations for participation in fitness programs?

 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in communicating with outside organizations.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience communicating with outside organizations.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.(


5.
Qualifications for this position requires A.) professional certification from a National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) accredited health/fitness organization; B.) competency in business and the design and delivery of exercise programs; and C.) at least three years of experience in the fitness industry/field for civilian personnel.

While elements (A) through (C) are preferred, a combination of two of these elements may sufficiently qualify an individual to perform their duties as program director:

(Please select all that apply)
 A. I have a professional certification from a National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) accredited health/fitness organization.
 B. I have documented experience which demonstrates a competency in business and the design and delivery of exercise programs.
 C. I have at least three years of experience in the fitness industry/field for civilian personnel.
 D. I have no professional certifications or related experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have a current and valid state driver's license?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙