Position Title
AERIAL DELIVERY SPECIALIST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12834766-AR-25-262 Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, November 15, 2025 to Saturday, November 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (403 QD) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (403 QD) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E4-E7) or Warrant (WO1)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-5210-10 Aerial Delivery Specialist.
 I HAVE an validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade, 1) Skilled in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately, 2) Ability to write English in reports and presentation formats, 3) Skilled in presenting formal training presentations and briefings, and 4) Skilled in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material.
 I DO NOT HAVE an validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-5210-10 Aerial Delivery Specialist.
 I HAVE at least 12 months of working experiences in performing various aerial delivery functions, necessary for day-to-day aerial delivery operations, 1) may include airdrop and airdrop inspections of equipment and personnel, rigging responsibilities, unit deployment training, personnel and cargo manifesting, joint inspection functions, load planning, determining cargo or personnel eligibility, performing the safe and efficient loading and off-loading of DoD-owned and controller aircraft, 2) in the aerial delivery support of non-DoD agencies, 3) competent in operating the maintenance electronic systems to identify recording faults or malfunction codes, 4) in requesting or receiving required repair parts, recording repair times as per appropriate technical manuals and processing close-out work reports, 5) included some work in the inspection applications and routines for airdrop equipment, 6) in following applicable directives, such as Army regulations, technical manuals, field manuals and Army pamphlets, safety messages and ground precautionary messages for airborne safety, 7) in applying decisions on tolerances and interrelated dimensions concerning timer delay systems releases, latch assembly couplings, cable assembly couplings, and actuator assembly, 8) on performing inspection techniques for burrs, tears, significant fraying, rough spots, corrosion, pits, cracks, welds, cuts, foreign material, bends, damaged threads, adjusting collars, set screws, shank pins, or timers, 9) on the use of designed instruments and gauges, such as, tension meters, scales, micrometers, gauges, torque wrenches, tests sets, porosity, oxygen test sets, altitude chambers, altimeters, or protractors, 10) in handling or inspecting sling-load equipment and sling-load operations, 11) in performing duties such as, inspector testers, pack-in-process inspector and/or final inspector, 12) included the initial inspection on parachutes, textile and non-textile components, and airdrop containers, 13) in the testing of parachute and newly issued airdrop equipment, to include conducting drop-tests troop-type personnel parachutes to check proficiency, 14) in inspecting and classifying airdrop items to determine whether items are serviceable, repairable, or beyond economical repair, receiving, maintaining, and issuing supplies, 15) may have involved making decisions on a wide range of matters that involved deviations and departures from past precedents and accepted practice or highly subjective judgments that could affect safety of flight and crew, and 16) including a range of aerial drop missions that included preparation, outfitting, and inspection for delivery of personnel and equipment into maritime environments or exceptionally hazardous terrain.
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙