Position Title
SPORTS SPECIALIST (FITNESS)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12920315 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have at least one of the following?
 I have an undergraduate or graduate degree with a major in physical education.
 I have at least 1-year specialized experience in providing certified group exercise instruction or certified personal training.
 I have a High School Diploma AND a certification from the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC).
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Do you have a current specialty certification relevant to the program area (e.g., Step, Cycle, Water Aerobics, Personal Training)? (Must attach to get credit.)
 I have 3+ additional specialty certifications.
 I have 2 additional specialty certifications.
 I have 1 additional specialty certification.
 I have no additional specialty certification.


3.
Do you have a current fitness instructor or personal trainer certification from an accredited health/fitness organization (must upload copy of certification for consideration). Recognized primary certifications are from National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC)-accredited certification.
 Yes
 No


4.
How many years' experience do you have assisting customers by providing general fitness information, instruction on proper use of fitness equipment (i.e. facility orientations), exercise prescription and program information? Must be documented on your resume.
 I have 3+ years' experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years' experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years' experience with the above.
 I have less than 1-year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Do you have any of the following certificates (check all that apply)? Upload all current certifications with resume.
 Mission Nutrition (Navy) Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) - Operational Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) - Online Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) -Strength, Endurance, & Sandbag Series (SES) Course
 Command Fitness Leader Course
 CPR/First Aid
 Other military service fitness certification (e.g. USMC AMP-IT or USMC HITT)
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙