Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC - TITLE 32
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-13005780-AR-26-152-01 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AOC
1.
What is your current military grade?
E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
O-1
O-2
O-3
O-4
O-5
O-6
O-7
O-8


2.
Are you a current member of the Kentucky Army National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions to the best of your knowledge and ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience removing and replacing aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and making adjustments and settings according to established specifications?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least 18 months experience installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least 18 months experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have experience that shows the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.  I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731).  I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙