Position Title
Supervisory Building Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-13005896 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Building Manager Supervisor position with the Unaccompanied Housing Department. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience/education. (Proof of Education must be attached if qualifying based off of education)
 I have a minimum of (3) three years of experience in a position related to facility / maintenance management.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education.
 I have a combination of education and at least one (1) year experience in facility, maintenance, and building management of housing properties or alike dwellings (e.g., rental units, apartments, vacation properties, school living quarters, etc).
 I do not have the experience/education mentioned above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have performing supervisory duties?
 I have no supervisory experience.
 I have less than two (2) years of supervisory experience.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of supervisory experience.
 I have more than three (3) years of supervisory experience.


3.
How many years of experience do you have applying policies, procedures, and business practices related to the management and utilization of government housing facilities and/or quarters or similar private sectors and/or companies ?
 I have no experience as described above.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


4.
Do you possess experience or documented knowledge of Commander Navy Installation Command (CNIC) or Department of Defense (DoD) policies and standards including safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices.
 Yes, I have experience as mentioned above.
 Yes, I have experience as mentioned above, but within the private sector or another government agency.
 No, I do not have the experience as mentioned above.


5.
Please select the software databases you have documented experience using:
 A. Word
 B. Excel
 C. PowerPoint
 D. I do not have experience with any of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have experience performing housing inspections with multiple departments to include, but not limited to Public Works, Security, Fire, Base Operating Services Contractor (BOSC) and the Environmental Preventive Medicine Unit (EPMU) or alike private sector businesses or organizations (i.e., Facility Mangement Companies, Property Maintenance Services, Private Security Companies, Private, local and state Fire Protection Services and First Responders, Industrial Hygiene and Enviromental Compliance Companies?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙