Position Title
ORDNANCE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12854937-AF-26-012 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Jan 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which has provided the candidate with the knowledge and application of mechanical and electrical principles and the skill to perform intricate repair and adjustment of hydraulic and pneumatic components and devices.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-08: Experience or training in dismantling, cleaning and reassembling various ordnance equipment such as; target detecting, arming, control, steering, power and propulsion units and devices. Experience which required the ability to diagnose malfunctions. Experience in hand tools and a limited number of measuring instruments. Experience in the use of a variety of test equipment, such as ohmmeters, voltmeters, and meggers. Experience interpreting and applying a variety of technical manuals and similar published materials.
 Yes
 No


3.
WG-10: Experience or training in repairing, rebuilding, modifying, and testing a variety of major subassemblies. Experience in diagnosing malfunctions and determining repair in major components consisting of numerous assemblies, interrelated electrical, mechanical, pneumatic, and hydraulic assemblies, and components. Experience in the use of precision measurement equipment. Experience interpreting and applying a variety of technical manuals and similar published materials.
 Yes
 No


4.

Describe a time you were responsible for the complete lifecycle of munitions assets, from materiel management to storage. Detail the steps you took to manage allocations, conduct inventories, and handle discrepancies. How did you ensure the inspection program you maintained met all requirements for receipt, stockpile surveillance, and shipping preparation?



5.

Provide a detailed example of the most complex maintenance or assembly task you performed on a conventional ordnance or missile system. Describe the initial issue or requirement, the steps you took to troubleshoot or assemble the unit, and the specific technical data, drawings, and precision tools you used. How did you document the process and certify the system's serviceability in the appropriate records system (e.g., APSR, TMRS)?



6.

Describe your experience in a planning and scheduling role within a munitions systems section. Walk me through how you would develop the munitions portion of a Base Support Plan, from coordinating with various sections to integrating training and mobility requirements. How would you use automated systems to track work orders and ensure the effective flow of information?



7.

Imagine a scenario where an urgent, unscheduled requirement for a large quantity of built-up munitions arises for a critical mission. However, your Master Storage Plan indicates that accessing the required components would be a complex and time-consuming process. Simultaneously, your maintenance section reports a critical failure on a piece of Munitions Material Handling Equipment (MMHE) needed for the operation. As the lead, what is your step-by-step plan to address this situation? Describe how you would coordinate with Materiel, Production, and Systems sections to solve the problem and meet the deadline safely.



8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙