Position Title
Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-24-DS-12373062-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 04, 2024 to Apr 12, 2024
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your job related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


TIME IN GRADE: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.


1.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-5 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veteran Services Position at the GS-7 level?
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-05 level (or above).


2.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-7 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veteran Services Position at the GS-9 level?
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 level (or above).


3.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-9 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veteran Services Position at the GS-10 level?
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level (or above).


This section includes questions about the specialized experience for this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.



4.
From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for this position at the GS-07 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the federal service). Specialized experience is defined as interpretation or application of laws, regulations, or procedures to analyze evidence to make determinations and research routine issues to resolve discrepancies; Technical assignments related to claims or benefits processing or eligibility determinations; Quality assurance or auditor functions; Claims processing for a state or federal agency, Insurance company, Worker’s Compensation, Disability Retirement or Pension Program.
 I possess one full year of graduate level education directly related to the position. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I possess a bachelor's degree in a field directly related to the position and I meet at least one of the requirements for superior academic achievement (SAA): 1. Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. 2. Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. (Grade-point averages are to be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 will round to 3.0 and 2.94 will round to 2.9.) 3. Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society -- Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies. Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have less than one year of directly related graduate education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. You must provide supporting transcripts.)
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


5.
From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for this position at the GS-09 level.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-07 level in the Federal service that include: 1) Interpreting laws, regulations, or procedures to analyze evidence to make with recommendations, and 2) Following procedures to process eligibility claims for benefits such as but not limited to: disability, worker and unemployment insurance compensation, insurance, loans, education, or retirement programs.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., and my education is directly related to the position (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than one year but less than two years of directly related graduate education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (You must provide supporting transcripts.)
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


6.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for this position at the GS-10 level.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-09 level in the Federal service that include: 1) Asking questions relating to military service or medical evidence to make determinations as to the eligibility for programs, 2) Reviewing claims or cases to assure all laws have been laws addressed in the adjudication process, and 3) Informing claimants of all evidence requirements needed to further process a claim for benefits and/or services.
 I possess two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than two years but less than two and a half years of directly related graduate education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (You must provide supporting transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙