Position Title
Permits Specialist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHN-26-13074031-IMP-KDW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


2.
Are you including a copy of your most recent (dated within the last 18 months) performance appraisal/evaluation?

DUE WEIGHT: Submit your "most recent" supervisor-signed performance appraisal showing the official rating of record dated within the past 18 months. If unavailable, you must provide a written explanation; failure to submit either required document will result in disqualification. Additional performance appraisals and awards dated within the past 5 years are optional and may be considered for due-weight purposes. The selecting official will review all submitted documentation and apply due-weight consideration in the overall selection process.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you did not include a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation dated within the last 18 months, please provide a statement as to why it is not available.

Important Note: All applicants must submit their most recent performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor. If the performance appraisal is not dated within the last 18 months OR no performance appraisal is available, you must submit a statement as to why it is not available (including if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level). Failure to submit a valid justification will result in loss of consideration due to an incomplete application package.






Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Merit Hiring Plan Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Permits Specialist GS-0301-09 position with the National Park Service, Grand Canyon National Park. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application may be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow the instructions for each question. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to erase (unclick) the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items with more than one response or items that are left blank will not receive credit.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, a copy of your unofficial or official transcripts must be provided with your application. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected.


Minimum Qualifications for Permits Specialist GS-0301-09. (Screen-out)


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Permits Specialist GS-0301-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these specialized experience and/or education requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-07 grade level in the federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). This experience includes activities such as coordinating, issuing, monitoring, and tracking commercial use authorizations, special park use permits, commercial filming permits, or right of way permits; assisting with implementing policies and procedures relative to a business management program in recreation or very similar industry; issuing/validating commercial use authorizations and/or special use permits for recreation/concessioners or very similar industry.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree -OR- two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree -OR- LL.B. or J.D., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. (You must provide transcripts).
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and education, as described above, that when combined equal at least 100% of the minimum qualification requirement for the GS-09 level. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education).
 I do not possess any of the requirements described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙