Position Title
FUL - Volunteer-In-Parks Coordinator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1628-VICK-26-13034371-FL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 75 miles from the job announcement location.
Location: Vicksburg National Military Park; 3201 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS 39183

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised
 A. YES, I permanently reside within 75 miles of Vicksburg National Military Park, Vicksburg, MS
 B. NO, I do not permanently reside within 75 miles of Vicksburg, MS


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Volunteer-In Parks Coordinator, GS-0301-07 position. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. Your ratings are subject to change if discrepancies exist between your responses and supporting documents. From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your qualifications for the Volunteer-In Parks Coordinator. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. Your resume must fully support the specialized experience outlined in the job announcement to be qualified. No assumptions will be made based on job title or grade level alone.


1.
Select the most appropriate response to indicate how you fulfill the minimum qualification requirement to qualify for the GS-07 level outlined in the job announcement:
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 in the federal service. Specialized experience equips the applicant withthe particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience for this position include: provide day-to-day oversight for a volunteer or youth work program, work with outdoor volunteer/youth projects; recruit volunteers/youth for park projects; work with others to implement special projects for volunteers; and provide support that contributes to the overall success of volunteer/youth achieving specific goals.
 I meet the requirements based on successful completion at least 1 year of graduate level study (18 hours). Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work as listed above. -OR- Meeting Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) as evidenced by one of the three following methods: (1) Upper third of graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, based on completed courses; OR (2) GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum, or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in my major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR (3) Membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies.
 I meet the requirements based on successful completion of a combination of education and experience as described above. For example: 6 months of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level as described above (50% of experience) and one-half year (9 graduate hours) of graduate level college study in a directly related field of study (50% of education).
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:

 I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙