Position Title
Statistician (Medicine)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARX-13030821-26-HB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Staffing: Part I, Chapter 3, Section A, pre-employment reference checks are an assessment method used in the hiring and selection process to verify the information provided by an internal or external candidate, gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities, and assist a hiring official with making a final selection for a position.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, position title, organization, telephone number, and email address of at least 3 professional references. One of these references must be a current or previous supervisor within the previous three years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted. By providing this information and submitting your application, you are consenting to Human Resources Staff and/or Hiring Managers contacting your references.

If a supervisory reference is not available, candidates may provide an alternate or additional reference from a professional source, such as a co-worker, professor, or other individual who has directly observed your work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, etc.

If a candidate does not grant permission to conduct reference checks with current/former supervisors or a hiring official is unable to reach at least one supervisory reference, and the candidate is unable to provide any alternative references, a hiring official must document and communicate the lack of acceptable references to the HR staff. A hiring official must consider the lack of acceptable references as a factor during the selection process if they were unable to verify work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, and so forth. A hiring official must cease selection consideration of that candidate.

Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Documentation Reminder - If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one year time-in-grade. The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.



Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Statistician (Medicine) position with the Office of Research and Development in Perry Point, Maryland. Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that experience and education are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.

Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.


1.
This is NOT a remote position; you must live within or be willing to relocate within a commutable distance of the following duty locations: 
Perry Point, MD
Do you live in the commuting range of one of these cities or are you willing to immediately relocate to one of these cities?
Note: A Relocation Incentive is being offered for highly qualified candidates working in the federal government.

Please pick the relevant response.
 I currently live in the commuting area of Perry Point, MD.
 I am willing to immediately relocate to Perry Point, MD.
 I don't currently live in the commuting area of Perry Point, MD and I am not willing to relocate.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Individual Occupational Requirement:
In order to meet the basic requirement of the Statistician, 1530 series, you must possess one of the following:
 
A degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.

or

A combination of education and experience as follows: courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.

Note: Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement above?

 Yes
 No


3.
GS-13 Specialized Experience:
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirement, you must have one full year of specialized experience at the GS12 grade level that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. In order to meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet 4/6 of the following examples of specialized experience:
Providing Biostatistical support during all phases of multi-center clinical trials.
Providing statistical input and advice to clinical teams.
Providing clear and regular technical and administrative input to professional, technical, and administrative personnel assigned to a clinical trial.
Ensuring the assigned studies are conducted according to rules, regulations and ethics requirements.
Reviewing the statistical programs, written by the assigned statistical programmer.
Monitoring performance using an established risk-based monitoring approach.
Do you meet the Specialized Experience Requirement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙