Position Title
Maintenance Worker (Trails) (Term, FUL)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1545-OLYM-26-13024055-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Acknowledgement
1.
I understand that I must ensure my resume and supporting documents are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as the following Washington state counties; Mason, Jefferson, Clallam, Grays Harbor.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position. Your resume must support the answers your claim in the questionnaire.


1.
This position is being filled as a Term appointment. The initial appointment is expected to be for more than one year (13 months). The appointment may be extended up to a maximum of 4 years from the date of appointment based on agency needs and funding; however, extensions are not guaranteed. This appointment is in Tenure Group 3, does not confer competitive status, and does not provide eligibility for conversion to a career or career-conditional appointment.

By selecting "Yes," you acknowledge that you understand the conditions of this appointment.
 Yes
 No (Selecting "No" indicates you do not wish to be considered for this position.)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring (FUL) Authority. By selecting "Yes," you certify that, at the time of application, you currently reside in one of the following Washington state counties: Mason, Jefferson, Clallam, or Grays Harbor.
 Yes, I certify that I currently reside in Mason, Jefferson, Clallam, or Grays Harbor County, Washington.
 No, I do not currently reside in one of these counties. (Selecting this response indicates you are not eligible for consideration under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority.)


3.
Which statement best describes your experience performing trail maintenance, masonry, and carpentry work?
 I have no training or experience performing trail maintenance, masonry, carpentry, or related maintenance work.
 I have assisted higher-graded workers performing trail maintenance, masonry, carpentry, or similar maintenance work. My duties included using hand and power tools, moving materials, or completing basic tasks under close supervision.
 I have independently performed trail maintenance and repair work, including maintaining or constructing trails, bridges, boardwalks, retaining walls, or similar structures using masonry, carpentry, and hand or power tools. I completed routine assignments with normal supervision.
 I have independently performed the full range of trail maintenance work, including constructing and repairing trail structures, dry stone masonry, carpentry, erosion control, operating maintenance equipment, and serving as a lead worker or providing technical guidance to others while completing work with normal supervision.


4.
Do you possess a current, valid State driver's license?
 Yes
 No


5.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙