Position Title
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13021704-AR-26-102 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E6 - E8, WO1 - CW4 or O1 - O3?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E6 - E8.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O3.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1 - O3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-11: Do you possess 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Experience supervising and/or managing supply personnel and a variety of supply functions. Knowledge on the entire inventory management supply system. Experience coordinating with other organizations on complex and controversial supply issues. Experience providing advice and guidance on supply regulations to upper levels of management regarding supply functions.
 Yes
 No


3.
Detail your background in developing and coordinating logistics procedures for unit deployments, emergency support to civil authorities, and training exercises. Please include an example of your experience operating within a logistics operations center or managing inter-agency coordination during an emergency or major mobilization.


4.

Explain your experience analyzing readiness data (such as Unit Status Reports or Material Readiness Reports) to assess and improve an organization's overall logistics posture. How have you used this consolidated data to develop equipment management policies (e.g., Equipment on Hand) and initiate equipment redistribution actions?



5.
Describe your experience formulating and implementing comprehensive logistics support plans and policies. In your response, provide specific examples of how you have gathered requirements from higher headquarters or partner organizations (such as JFHQ, USPFO, or NGB) to drive your logistics operations support.


6.
Describe your experience developing and executing logistics plans for material fielding, mobilization, and mission support. Be sure to highlight your specific role in determining requirements for new equipment training, guiding MTOE/TDA changes, and managing the turn-in or disposition of excess equipment.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙