Position Title
Incident Business Management Specialist (Fire Support)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-EHT-FIRENC4-FS3163-1112D Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education needed to qualify for this position.


For the following questions, select the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application, as well as information provided by your references. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience for the Incident Business Management Specialist position at the GS-11 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as three or more of the following: Preparing, reviewing, and executing fire-related agreements consistent with incident (such as wildland fire, hurricane, flood, and/or earthquake recovery) business management policies and guidelines; and/or Providing guidance regarding incident business management policies and guidelines to fire managers; and/or Coordinating with other partners such as federal, state, local government or equivalent to resolve incident payments and billings; and/or Conducting reviews and analysis to measure performance of incident business related functions.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. Examples of qualifying education include degree programs in contracting, financial management, business administration or other closely related field.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (beyond what is required for a master's degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading to a Ph.D.).
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


2.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience for the Incident Business Management Specialist position at the GS-12 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as three or more of the following: Providing advice and counsel to higher-level fire management on incident business management administrative issues to include appropriation use, personnel/payroll, cost management, fire acquisition, and fire claims; and/or Evaluating the effectiveness of incident business related trainings and making recommendations to improve course materials and delivery; and/or Preparing program-related correspondence, reports, and other written materials regarding incident business and fire programs, policies, and operations; and/or Coordinating with federal, state, local government, and private industry to manage wildland fire related agreements and ensure they are current, properly utilized, appropriate, and necessary; and/or Monitoring agreements and ensuring incident payments and billings are completed and consistent with agreements.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


3.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, degree, and/or completion of trade or vocational school program.
 A. I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of high school or college.
 B. I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 C. I am (was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 D. I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g., M.A. or Ph.D.).
 E. I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 F. I have received a certificate or other indicator of successful completion of a trade or vocational school program that is directly related to the work of this position.
 G. None of the above.


For the following questions, select the option from the list below that best reflects the appropriate description associated with the position. Please select only one response for each question.


4.
Which option best describes the duties typically performed in the developmental role of this position ?
 Responsible to ensure incident payments and billings are completed consistent with law; Provides advice and counsel on administrative issues including appropriation use, personnel/payroll, cost management, fire acquisition, fire claims, and compensation for injury; Coordinates, negotiates, develops and administers agreements to meet the objectives of interagency units; Participates in formal and informal training opportunities providing expertise in development and presentation of incident business related materials.
 Participates in incident management as the agency representative to Incident Management Teams.
 Coordinates, negotiates, develops and administers agreements to meet the objectives of interagency units, Provides advice and counsel on administrative issues including appropriation use, personnel/payroll, cost management, fire acquisition, fire claims, and compensation for injury.
 Seeks and tracks policy and guideline developments in incident business and related functions.
 Advises leadership on aviation functions and proper firefighting theory.


5.
What knowledge categories are most important for the developmental role of this position?
 Knowledge of other agencies with fire protection responsibilities mission, objectives, and practices in order to integrate common objectives and efficiencies.
 Knowledge of a wide range of special statutory grant and agreement authorities, regulations, procedures and practices.
 Knowledge of the laws, policies, regulations, and guidelines of Forest Service and Interagency Incident Business Management practices; Knowledge of complex fire program management, dispatch, and incident management team processes and systems; Knowledge of a wide range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of complex fire program business processes and systems; Knowledge of interpersonal skills for collaboration, negotiation, and coordination.
 Knowledge of the laws, policies, regulations, and guidelines of Forest Service and Interagency Incident Business Management practices.
 Knowledge of Complex mathematics and mathematical theory.


6.
Which option best describes the duties typically performed at the full performance level of this role?
 Conducts review of the effectiveness of financial management and other business management practices on incidents within a Geographic Area, Develops coordinated state plans, which support efforts to reduce fire management costs and provide for a safe fire organization, Conducts regional and/or unit level interagency fire business management training for incident command positions, Negotiates with key federal and state officials on controversial issues, or to gain acceptance of new programs or systems.
 Researches and identifies complex program issues or problems impacting program initiative; makes recommendations for and coordinates resolutions and improvements.
 Prepares written reports and/or analyses regarding polices on difficult or complex matters such as appropriate expenditure of funds, rental and use of equipment, claims, cost effectiveness, property management, procurement, payments, and personnel timekeeping .
 Develops coordinated state plans, which support efforts to reduce fire management costs and provide for a safe fire organization.
 Advises leadership on fire engine functions and proper firefighting theory.


7.
What knowledge categories are most important for the full performance level of this position?
 Knowledge of position responsibilities sufficient to provide appropriate advice and counsel for successful incident administration
 Knowledge of communication, conflict resolution, management, leadership skills, and facilitative ability to be able to effectively support all levels of the organization
 Knowledge and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations; Knowledge of fire and aviation management, policy development, program monitoring and evaluation, Knowledge in applying evaluative techniques to develop and use statistical, analytical data, and special studies material to coordinate and monitor inputs to the planning, program development and implementation processes with the budgetary system, Knowledge of the legislation, regulations and decisions controlling program funding.
 Knowledge of the laws, policies, regulations, and guidelines of Forest Service and Interagency Incident Business Management practices.
 Knowledge of complex Physics and application for engineering application.


For each item below, use the text box to provide a description of a specific instance from your training and/or experience. In your response, please follow these important guidelines as you write your accomplishment:
Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved...
Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.
Provide the name and a telephone number, email address, or other method of contacting someone who can verify this information. Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating.


8.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in resolving discrepancies and billing issues directly with local government, state, and federal entities and payment centers for incident (such as wildland fire, hurricane, flood, and/or earthquake recovery) business and related functions. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).


9.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in collaborating with grants and agreements specialists and fire managers to establish new agreements and execute modifications. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).


10.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in identifying issues, gathering and analyzing information, and developing advice and guidance to resolve substantive problems affecting the effectiveness and efficiency of incident business operations. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).


Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take an opportunity to review your responses for their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Have you read the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement and understand that failure to submit all required, legible documents prior to the closing date of the announcement may result in loss of consideration?
 Yes
 No


12.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙