Position Title
GARDENER (MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR)-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-500306-12910509-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a Gardener, WG-5003-06 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Gardener, WG-5003-06 without more than normal supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.
 I am able to independently perform routine gardening tasks such as landscaping areas assigned by spreading topsoil, fertilizer, liming, seeding, planting, laying sod and watering; prepare seedbed, plant flowers, lay sod for new lawns or repair lawns by tillage and/or top soiling. I am able to independently perform ground maintenance such as mowing, weeding, watering, pruning and trimming according to instructions; look for obvious plan diseases (e.g., mold, brown spot, rust, blight and mildew) plant insects (e.g., leaf miners, scale, borers and slugs) and unusual or poor plant growth and report these conditions to the supervisor. I am able to use a variety of hand and power operated garden tools and equipment (e.g., seeders, spreaders, edgers, hedge trimmers, pruning shears, sprayers, spades, hoes, rakes and mowers) to accomplish work as assigned. I am able to operate Operate one or more gasoline, diesel, or electric powered wheeled vehicles with a GVW of more than 10,000 pounds and up to 26,000 pounds and mowers of less weight and perform preventive maintenance on any vehicle operated; and handling and hauling cargo (while safeguarding and protecting the cargo).
 I am able to perform a wide range of gardening tasks, while under limited supervision, such as landscaping areas assigned by spreading topsoil, fertilizer, liming, seeding, planting, laying sod and watering; prepare seedbed, plant flowers, lay sod for new lawns or repair lawns by tillage and/or top soiling. I am able to perform ground maintenance such as mowing, weeding, watering, pruning and trimming according to instructions; look for obvious plan diseases (e.g., mold, brown spot, rust, blight and mildew) plant insects (e.g., leaf miners, scale, borers and slugs) and unusual or poor plant growth and report these conditions to the supervisor. I am able to use a variety of hand and power operated garden tools and equipment (e.g., carving tools, mallet, chisel, hand operated drill, climbing belt and chain saw) to accomplish work as assigned. I am able to operate Operate one or more gasoline, diesel, or electric powered wheeled vehicles with a GVW of more than 10,000 pounds and up to 26,000 pounds and mowers of less weight and perform preventive maintenance on any vehicle operated; and handling and hauling cargo (while safeguarding and protecting the cargo).
 I am able to perform common gardening tasks, while under close supervision and subject to inspection, lay sod, aerate lawn, prune and trim shrubs and hedges and able to water grass and plants; I am able to follow instructions such as specific plants to tend and nature of work to be done with directions from supervisor or manufacturer’s labels. I am able to use a variety of hand and power operated garden tools and equipment (e.g., seeders, spreaders, edgers, hedge trimmers, pruning shears, sprayers, spades, hoes, rakes and mowers) to accomplish work as assigned – OR - I have successfully completed a certified Gardener training program. NOTE: IF YOU SELECT THIS RESPONSE BASED ON VOCATIONAL TRAINING, YOU MUST SUBMIT SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION (E.G., TRANSCRIPTS).
 I am able to learn to perform simple tasks of a Gardener cleaning equipment, sweeping, straightening and lining up tools and other property in an assigned area.
 I have no experience or training related to the position of Gardener.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙