Position Title
PARK RANGER
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CE-DD-26-13054253-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


COE
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Park Ranger position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-05 Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Park Ranger at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service which includes developing and conducting interpretative talks and guided tours, patrolling land and water areas for safety and maintenance purposes, explaining park project rules and regulations, answering visitor questions and providing information on park activities and cultural, historical, and/or natural resources history and locations.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with twenty-four semester hours of related course work in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education as described in B, but less than the required four years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education by 120. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GS-07 Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Park Ranger at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes assisting with the development of plans and schedules for park employees, assisting with creating guides, manuals and training materials, performing park management functions associated with park safety and security, developing and maintaining park programs.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate-level education with major study in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree and am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
GS-09 Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Park Ranger at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes administering the conservation and/or use of a project's natural resources; implementing plans for the construction or improvement of a recreation facility; and developing or administering service contracts for a recreation facility.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education with major study in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙