Position Title
RESOURCE MANAGER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12966616-AR-26-179 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Areas of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with membership in the Tennessee Army National Guard?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3). For Lateral requests blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.




Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience creating, exploring, evaluating, designing, and sharing solutions and the validity of their predicted performance to resolve problems, conditions, and issues; experience applying a range and depth of knowledge acquired specifically through an intensive learning regimen of the theories, concepts and principles of a body of accounting and/or auditing knowledge; experience applying a knowledge of professional accounting and/or auditing analysis, theory and principles in adapting to the unique requirements of a particular program?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 36 months specialized experience analyzing, evaluating, modifying and developing the basic programs, policies and procedures which facilitate the professional work of accounting and/or auditing; ability to apply analytical reasoning in the identification, analysis, and evaluation of budgetary problems for the development of alternative solutions, involving resolution of conflicting goals and objectives (e.g., increased workload coupled with decreased funding),in order to administer programs efficiently and effectively and to develop recommendations for improvement; a comprehensive knowledge and skill in the identification, analysis, and resolution of a range of budgetary problems associated with program execution; Knowledge of state and Federal accounting systems in order to appropriately administer CFMO programs; A working knowledge of accounting principles and procedures to effectively execute Federal and State programs; experience in managing the function of the work to be performed; experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your comprehensive experience in managing, executing, and auditing complex budgets for large-scale programs.


3a.
Please provide a specific example of a financial control system or process you implemented to prevent cost overruns and ensure audit readiness.


4.
Outline your experience navigating complex federal or DoD contracting and financial regulations.


4a.
Describe a time you identified a compliance vulnerability within a program and the steps you took to correct it.


5.
Explain your approach to supervising a diverse team of program and financial professionals.


5a.
Provide a specific scenario where you successfully guided a subordinate team through a high-pressure mission requirement or a significant organizational change.


6.
Detail your background in overseeing multiple concurrent programs under strict regulatory constraints.


6a.
How do you ensure these programs continuously align with both strategic objectives and statutory compliance requirements?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
*I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙