Position Title
Supervisory General Engineer
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-GR-DH-26-12940208 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


3.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Montgomery County, MD
 B. Durham, NC


Short Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory General Engineer, GS-0801-15 position at our agency. For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience, training, or ability. For the purposes of this assessment, an expert is a person, through education and experience, who has a comprehensive and authoritative knowledge of or skill in a particular area.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education requirements for the Supervisory General Engineer, GS-0801-15 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I have a bachelor's degree in professional engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board of Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I qualify for this position because I have a bachelor's degree in professional engineering that includes differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (1) statics, dynamics; (2) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (3) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (4) thermodynamics; (5) electrical fields and circuits; (6) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (7) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I qualify for this position because I am registered as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I qualify for this position because I am currently registered as an Engineering Intern (EI) or an Engineer in Training (EIT).
 I qualify for this position because I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I qualify for this position because I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum as described above.
 I qualify for this position because I have successfully completed a curriculum that led to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology OR in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology AND I have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 My education does not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the additional qualification requirements for a Supervisory General Engineer, GS-0801-15 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-15 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: leading and coordinating multidisciplinary teams of engineers, operations and maintenance staff, and other support staff to ensure reliable operations of utility systems; developing and maintaining policies and standards governing the development and use of real property; planning and managing the workload of engineering and architectural teams working on construction projects; leading design teams for architectural and engineering projects; providing briefs, advice, and guidance to senior level officials and staff on progress, issues, and potential issues or controversies as they relate to design and construction management.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


The following questions are not scored and/ or rated. Please select the responses that apply to your engineering experience and background. Your responses MUST be clearly demonstrated in your resume. Failure to support your responses in your resume may affect your rating. Any misrepresentation or material omission of facts may be sufficient cause to end further consideration of your candidacy.


3.
Which of the following engineering disciplines and/or engineering subjects do you have experience with? Please select all that apply.
 A. Architecture/Engineering project management
 B. New facilities construction
 C. Existing facilities renovation
 D. Energy management
 E. Resource management
 F. Utility Management (metering hardware/software, metrics and analysis)
 G. Energy savings performance contract (ESPC) execution
 H. Mechanical engineering
 I. Electrical engineering
 J. Civil engineering
 K. Engineering safety management
 L. Facilities accreditation program management
 M. Engineering planning and design
 N. Construction Commissioning
 O. Operational Technology System Ownership


The following question is an open-ended, narrative question. Please keep your responses under 2500 characters.


4.
Briefly describe your experience working with the areas of engineering you selected in the prior question. Your response MUST be supported by your resume. Please keep your response under 2500 characters.


5.
The following question is not scored and is for the purpose of collecting information regarding professional licensure. Do you have a current Professional Engineering license OR current registration as a Professional Architect in any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico? From the below options, please select the response that most accurately describes your Professional Licensure.
 Yes, I have a current Professional Engineering (P.E.) license.
 Yes, I have a current Registered Architect (R.A.) license.
 No, I do not hold a current P.E. or R.A. license.


6.
As an applicant for federal employment, you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application.

I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment.

I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information.

Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?

 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙