Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12884241-26-TMB Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Recreation Therapist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position. This section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) in response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in written and spoken English in order to meet the basic requirement of this position.

Are you proficient in the spoken and written English Language?

 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION: You must meet at least one of the requirements below. Please select one option from the following:

 I have a Bachelor's degree or higher approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification with a major in Therapeutic Recreation or Recreation Licensure with an emphasis in Therapeutic Recreation.
 I have a Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college approved by NCTRC and a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS).
 I do not meet any of the above education requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification: Applicants must be certified in Recreation Therapy as a CTRS by the NCTRC. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Exception. Non-registered and/or non-certified applicants at the GS-7 and GS-9 level who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for registration and/or certification, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Recreation therapist, under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B), the appointment cannot exceed two years if the non-registered applicant's registration is pending NCTRC.

Do you meet this requirement? In all cases Recreation Therapist must actively pursue meeting registration starting from the date of appointment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Experience, GS-9 Recreation Therapist Level-One year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level (GS-7), or a master's degree in recreation therapy may be substituted for the required one year of professional recreation therapist experience.Also, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following: (a) Knowledge of assessment tools and treatment for the diagnosis or disability of the patient. (b) Knowledge to interpret and apply all health and safety regulations, to minimize and mitigate risks in the provisions of patient care, and environmental maintenance. (c) Ability to effectively communicate and educate patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the treatment process. (d) Knowledge to apply evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.

Do you possess the above experience as described above?

 Yes
 No


6.
Requirements for GS-11 Recreation Therapist Level-
One year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level (GS-9). Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to: conduct patient evaluations; analyze and interpret leisure, cognitive, and motor skill assessment data to develop individualized goals, objectives, and treatment plan of care; develop and select interventions to achieve patient goals; review patient progress; adapt or adjust the treatment plan and intervention strategies; implement therapeutic interventions that support measurable functional outcomes; evaluate patient needs for additional, alternative, or termination of services; document patient's behavioral observations, progress, functioning, and intervention outcomes; and develop and provide collaborative services with other team members. Therapists at this level may be given general assignments in a program area.

In addition to the experience the candidate must demonstrate the following: (a). Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment interventions to address the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of unconventional methods and techniques. (b). Knowledge to independently interpret provider referrals and consults; and apply all health and safety regulations to minimize and mitigate risks in the provision of patient care and the environment of care. (c) Skill in effectively communicating and educating, in a clear and concise manner, with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the interdisciplinary treatment process. (d). Skill in independently utilizing appropriate screening and evaluation techniques required to appropriately provide direct patient care in areas such as, but not limited to recommendations for recreation therapy assistive devices, including fit and function. (e). Skill in independently applying evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions. (f). Knowledge of the principles and techniques in recreation therapy assessment and the treatment of recreation, leisure, and biopsychosocial functional deficits.

Do you possess the above experience as described?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙