Position Title
Supervisory Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN-26-13028652 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Hiring Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the position of a Supervisory Sexual Assault Response Coordinator, NF-0101-05. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0101 Social Science Series?
 Bachelor's Degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 Combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates the acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least five (5) years of specialized experience in victim assistance or advocacy within either military or civilian sector?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing the full range of supervisory duties, such as managing workflows, conducting performance reviews, taking corrective actions for disciplinary issues?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have conducting effective sexual assault prevention and response trainings and briefings?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Which describes your experience interpreting and applying sexual assault prevention and response policies (please select all that apply)?
 A. I have experience with the above within Department of Navy (DON).
 B. I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside of the DON.
 C. I have experience with the above within the federal government, but outside of the DoD.
 D. I have experience with the above within state or local government, or private industry.
 E. I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙