Position Title
Public Notice - Fire Protection Engineer (Direct Hire)
Agency
John F. Kennedy Space Center
Announcement Number
KSC-26-DE-13018227-JK Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education meets the requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in engineering from a school of engineering that has at least one program accredited by ABET.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in engineering that included differential calculus, integral calculus, and courses more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry in five of the following areas of engineering science or physics: (1) statics and dynamics; (2) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (3) fluid mechanics and hydraulics; (4) thermodynamics; (5) electrical fields and circuits; (6) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (7) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of college courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that meet the requirements of an engineering program and include the courses as described in B above.
 I have completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 I have evidence I passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in a State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a current registration or licensure as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or Professional Engineer (PE) in a State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a professional registration or licensure as an Engineer through a State Board's eminence provision (e.g., grandfathering).
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service that included: Applying knowledge of fire protection engineering principles, codes, and standards to assist in reviewing design and construction plans for facilities or facility upgrades; assisting in the review of construction project designs, specifications, and submittals in one or more of the following areas: fire suppression, fire detection, life safety, building code, or national electric code, under the guidance of a senior engineer; supporting fire protection, fire prevention, and life safety projects and investigations by gathering data, conducting inspections, or performing analyses under supervision.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in an appropriate field.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in an appropriate field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Applying fire protection engineering principles and practices to review design and construction plans for new, existing, or upgraded facilities for compliance with fire protection codes and standards; reviewing construction project designs, specifications, and submittals in one or more of the following areas: fire suppression, fire detection, life safety, building code, or national electric code, and recommending corrective actions where deficiencies are identified; assisting in the development and execution of fire protection, fire prevention, and life safety projects and investigations, and contributing to quality reviews of fire protection engineering products.
 I do not have the experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Providing Fire Protection engineering guidance for design and construction of new and existing facilities and proposed facilities/facility upgrades in accordance with fire protection code and standards; Reviewing and providing input on construction project designs, specifications, and submittals in one or more of the following areas: fire suppression, fire detection, life safety, building code, or national electric code; Formulating and implementing projects and investigations in all matters of fire protection, fire prevention, and life safety, as well as providing oversight on the quality and compliance of fire protection engineering products.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and that all responses to assessment questions and application materials are entirely my own work. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙