Position Title
Criminal Investigator (U.S. Foreign Service)
Agency
U.S. Agency for International Development
Announcement Number
OIG-26-FS-12910739-GT Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Criminal Investigator, FS-04 position with the U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Inspector General (OIG). We will evaluate your resume to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Individual Occupational Requirements Statement - MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS: The duties of positions in this series require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision in each eye, with or without correction, is required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Near vision, corrective lenses permitted, must be sufficient to read printed material the size of typewritten characters. Hearing loss, as measured by an audiometer, must not exceed 35 decibels at 1000, 2000, and 3000 Hz levels. Since the duties of these positions are exacting and responsible, and involve activities under trying conditions, applicants must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the applicant to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you willing to submit to a medical exam to assess your eligibility for meeting this individual occupational requirements statement above.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you successfully completed any of the following criminal investigator courses: Army Criminal Investigations Division Academy; Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Academy; Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Academy; Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Academy; Postal Inspections Academy; or Criminal Investigator Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC)?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a Top Secret/SCI clearance. Are you willing to undergo the necessary preemployment/ checks / investigations to be able to obtain and maintain a Top Secret Clearance/SCI throughout the duration of your Federal Employment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have experience conducting investigations of Title 18, Claims Act and investigations involving contractual remedies.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position is a Testing Designated Position (TDP) subject to the applicant testing and random drug testing. The incumbent of this position must successfully pass a urinalysis screening for illegal drugs prior to appointment and periodically thereafter. Tentatively selected applicants will be required to sign an agreement requiring participation in random drug testing. Are you willing to undergo random urinalysis/drug screening?
 Yes
 No


6.
FS-04/GS-12 Equivalent: Choose one answer that best describes your experience
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the FS-05/GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described in the vacancy announcement.


7.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙