Position Title
Laborer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
NOLA 97-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 2, 2025 to Monday, December 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to work a Part-time work schedule. A part-time schedule describes work performed between 20 to 34 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


4.
If you do not currently reside in the local area, are you claiming and submitting all required documents for military spouse preference?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with operating simple powered equipment such as push lawn mowers, leaf blowers, weed trimmers, hand buffers, hatchets, saws or other similar equipment.
 I have no experience as described above.
 I have less than six (6) months as described above.
 I have between six (6) months to one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have more than one (1) year of experience as described above.


2.
Describe your experience performing manual labor tasks that require lifting, carrying, and moving moderately heavy objects.
 I have no experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


3.
Describe your experience completing tasks independently after receiving basic written or verbal instructions.
 I have no experience as described above.
 I have less than six (6) months of experience as described above.
 I have between six (6) months and one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have more than one (1) year of experience as described above.


4.
Describe your experience reading signs and following simple oral and written instructions in a work environment.
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙