Position Title
PUBLIC NOTICE- DEA Criminal Investigators
Agency
Drug Enforcement Administration
Announcement Number
PUBLICNOTICE-DEA-BA2026 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 16, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Spanish Language Skill:

Are you proficient in speaking Spanish?

Applicants who possess proficiency in the Spanish language (speaking, reading, and writing) are strongly encouraged to apply. Spanish language skills are highly desirable in support of DEA's mission to disrupt and dismantle transnational criminal organizations, particularly in investigations involving Latin America, the Southern Border, and international partnerships.

Applicants who indicate proficiency may be required to complete a language assessment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Special Agent Transition Program:

Are you a current or former 1811 applicant who has successfully completed a Federal Criminal Investigation training program (FLETC/CITP) through another federal law enforcement agency?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of a Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your status as an 1811 Criminal Investigator as well as FLETC/CITP transcripts.


 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Criminal Investigator-Special Agent GS-1811-7/9/11 position with the Drug Enforcement Administration. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Note: You will be asked to provide a copy of the exemption prior to appointment

 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


3.
The date immediately preceding (one day before) your 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment into the Special Agent position. This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in a federal civilian (non-military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336 (c) or to preference eligible veterans. I meet one of the situations described below:
 I am 36 1/2 years of age or younger.
 I am 36 1/2 years of age or older and I am a preference eligible veteran.
 I am 36 1/2 years or older and I have prior federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336(C). When the years of service are subtracted from my current age I am under 36 1/2 years of age.
 I am 36 1/2 years or older and I do NOT have prior federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336 (C) and I am NOT a preference eligible veteran.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION  


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Criminal Investigator work at the GL-7 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-5 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: Assisting in investigations of alleged or suspected violations of law; Writing reports of findings, results, or accomplishments for information or action relating to law enforcement activities and/or court cases; and researching, collecting and analyzing data from a variety of sources relating to investigations.
 I have one (1) full academic year of graduate level education.
 I have Superior Academic Achievement. I have completed or expect to complete within the next 9 months all the requirements for a bachelor's degree and my education meets at least one of the following requirements for superior academic achievement: 1) class standing in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision based on completed courses; 2) grade point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; 3) grade point average of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR 4) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society listed by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I have a combination of graduate level education or higher and specialized experience described above which when computed has a total percentage of at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 18. Add the two percentages. (The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected above.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Criminal Investigator work at the GL-9 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-7 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: Assisting in investigations of alleged or suspected violations of law; Collecting and analyzing data from a variety of sources relating to investigations; Writing reports and conducting briefings of findings, results, or accomplishments for information or action relating to law enforcement activities and/or court cases; Meeting or corresponding with court officials and law enforcement personnel to discuss case-related materials; and Assisting prosecuting attorneys in preparation of technical aspects of cases; and/or testifying or presenting evidence for court, legislative, or administrative proceedings.
 I have completed all requirements for a Master's Degree, LL.B or J.D, if related.
 I have two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Master's Degree, LL.B or J.D, if related.
 I have a combination of graduate level education or higher and specialized experience described above which when computed has a total percentage of at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. (The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected above.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Criminal Investigator work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-9 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: Working on Federal criminal investigations; Developing operational plans and determining investigative priorities of federal cases; Operating undercover, conducting surveillance operations, participating in raids, seizures and arrests etc.; Developing and eliciting information from confidential sources; Interviewing, and interrogating persons suspected of violations of law; and organizing evidence for presentation to prosecution officials and testifying in court.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M, if related.
 I have three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of graduate level education or higher and specialized experience described above which when computed has a total percentage of at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36 by 18. Add the two percentages. (The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected above.


ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS


7.
This position requires that you have and maintain a valid driver's license.
 I have a valid driver's license.
 I do not have a valid driver's license.


8.
DEA Special Agents must have proficient driving skills and be comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.

 I have proficient driving skills and am comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.
 I do not have proficient driving skills and/or am not comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.


9.
Upon accepting a position with DEA, you may be required to serve a one to two year trial period. (1 year for preference eligibles and 2 years for non-preference eligibles).
 I am willing to serve a 1 to 2 year trial period.
 I am not willing to serve a 1 to 2 year trial period.


10.
DEA Special Agents may be required to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).

 I am willing to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).
 I am not willing to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).


11.
DEA Special Agents are required to carry a firearm while on official duty.

 I am willing to carry a firearm while on official duty.
 I am not willing to carry a firearm while on official duty.


12.
DEA Special Agents may be required to use deadly force should circumstances dictate.

 I am willing to utilize deadly force should circumstances dictate.
 I am not willing to utilize deadly force should circumstances dictate.


13.
All DEA Special Agents are subject to transfer to a new geographical location to meet the organizational and program needs of the agency.

 I am willing to sign a mobility agreement as a condition of my employment.
 I am not willing to sign a mobility agreement as a condition of my employment.


14.
DEA Special Agents must often travel away from their duty location for extended periods of time.

 I am willing to travel away from my duty location for extended periods of time.
 I am not willing to travel away from my duty location for extended periods of time.


15.
This position requires attendance at a 16-week residential training program at Quantico, VA. 1811 applicants who have successfully completed a Federal Criminal Investigation training program through another federal law enforcement agency, may qualify for a 3-week Special Agent Transition Program (FCIT Transcripts must be attached).
 I am willing to attend a residential training program at Quantico, VA.
 I am not willing to attend a residential training program at Quantico, VA.


16.
DEA Special Agents must be willing to work an average of a 50-hour work week.

 I am willing to work an average of a 50-hour work week.
 I am not willing to work an average of a 50-hour work week.


17.
DEA Special Agents must be willing to work an irregular schedule including nights, weekends, and holidays with possible extended absences from home.

 I am willing to work an irregular schedule including nights, weekends, and holidays with possible extended absences from home.
 I am not willing to work an irregular schedule including nights, weekends, and holidays with possible extended absences from home.


18.
As an applicant for a DEA Special Agent position, you will be required to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.

 I am willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation.
 I am not willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation.


19.
As an applicant for a DEA Special Agent position, you will be required to undergo a full-scope pre-employment polygraph examination as it relates to the truthfulness of your application and other aspects of the selection process, regarding illegal drug use, criminal history or integrity issues. Current or former 1811 Applicants who have previously completed and passed a polygraph examination with their current or previous agency, may seek reciprocity with the DEA during the hiring process. As part of the application process, DEA will review the applicant agency polygraph policy as well as its polygraph examination standards and process.  Upon completion of this review, DEA will decide on the type, if any, examination will be required.
 I am willing to undergo a pre-employment polygraph examination.
 I am not willing to undergo a pre-employment polygraph examination.


SUITABILITY 


Please read the following suitability questions VERY CAREFULLY. If you answer "Yes" to any of the questions in this section, you WILL be disqualified from consideration for this position. 

Ensure your responses are accurate and truthful before submitting your application.


20.
Have you ever been convicted of a felony?
 No, I have never been convicted of a felony.
 Yes, I have been convicted of a felony.


21.
Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving the use or attempted use of physical force, including but not limited to domestic violence or child abuse?
 No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving the use or attempted use of physical force, including but not limited to domestic violence or child abuse.
 Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving the use or attempted use of physical force, including but not limited to domestic violence or child abuse.


22.
Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving the use or threatened use of a deadly weapon?
 No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving the use or threatened use of a deadly weapon.
 Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving the use or threatened use of a deadly weapon.


23.
Have you ever used a drug, including cannabis (cannabis includes marijuana, hashish, hash oil and THC), while in a law enforcement or prosecutorial position, or a position of high public responsibility or trust?
 No, I have never used a drug, including cannabis (cannabis includes marijuana, hashish, hash oil and THC), while in a law enforcement or prosecutorial position, or a position of high public responsibility or trust.
 Yes, I have used a drug, including cannabis (cannabis includes marijuana, hashish, hash oil and THC), while in a law enforcement or prosecutorial position, or a position of high public responsibility or trust.


24.
Have you had your driver's license suspended two or more times within the last 5 years?
 No, I have never had my driver's license suspended two or more times within the last 5 years.
 Yes, I have had my driver's license suspended two or more times within the last 5 years.


25.
Have you ever been convicted of reckless/careless driving more than once in the last 3 years?
 No, I have never been convicted of reckless/careless driving more than once in the last 3 years.
 Yes, I have been convicted of reckless/careless driving more than once in the last 3 years.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT STATEMENTS


26.
I understand that I must be available to complete all assessment phases of the Special Agent applicant process. If I am unavailable to participate in the required phases of the applicant process, the processing of my application will be discontinued and my file closed.
 I understand and acknowledge that I must be available to complete all assessment phases of the Special Agent applicant process.
 I do not understand or acknowledge that I must be available to complete all assessment phases of the Special Agent applicant process.


27.
As part of the initial application process, I may be required to complete a Physical Task Assessment (PTA). Failure to pass the PTA will result in my application being closed. I may also be required to take and pass a PTA prior to being hired. Applicants MUST be physically fit in order to pass the PTA.
 I understand and acknowledge that I may be required to complete a Physical Task Assessment (PTA) as part of the initial application process.
 I do not understand or acknowledge that I may be required to complete a Physical Task Assessment (PTA) as part of the initial application process.


28.
If hired, you will be required to sign a Mobility Agreement, which ensures that you agree to remain available for transfer, either for permanent or temporary assignment. Upon graduation from the DEA Academy, you MUST be available to transfer to any DEA Division office, including San Juan, PR. Since Special Agents rarely return to their processing office, you should ensure that your family is prepared for and supports any assignment location you are given upon graduation from the DEA Academy.
 I understand and acknowledge that I will be required to sign a Mobility Agreement.
 I do not understand or acknowledge that I will be required to sign a Mobility Agreement.


29.
I understand that location availability for this position is limited, and while the agency will make every effort to accommodate my preferred location, placement will ultimately be determined based on the needs of the agency. I further acknowledge that I am bound by the stipulations of the mobility agreement, which may require relocation to meet operational requirements.
 I understand and acknowledge that location availability for this position is limited.
 I do not understand or acknowledge that location availability for this position is limited.


30.
The DEA is committed to a drug-free society and workplace. Applicants for employment with the DEA, to include paid and unpaid employees; and contractors, who are currently using illegal drugs, or abusing legal drugs or substances at the time of the application process, will not be selected for employment. DEA recognizes some otherwise qualified applicants may have used illegal drugs, or abused legal drugs or substances, at some point in their past; application of DEA's drug use policy guidelines, in conjunction with a case-by-case analysis, will determine if an applicant's prior drug usage or activity will result in the applicant's non-selection for employment with the DEA.
 I understand and acknowledge the above statement.
 I do not understand or acknowledge the above statement.


31.
If you previously applied for a DEA Special Agent position:
Passing Written Assessments and a Structured Interview conducted as part of your previous DEA Special Agent application may be transferrable to your new application.
A Medical Examination conducted as part of your previous DEA Special Agent application will be considered current for 2 years after date of examination. A new medical examination will not be required unless there has been a change in your medical status.
In accordance with the authority granted by the Office of Personnel Management, DEA will not hire Special Agent applicants who receive a Countermeasures (CM), Significant Response (SR), or three (3) No Opinion (NO) results on their DEA administered polygraph examination. Therefore, if you receive CM, SR, or three (3) NO results on your polygraph, you will not be eligible for hire in a DEA Special Agent position.
 I understand and acknowledge the above statement.
 I do not understand and do not acknowledge the above statement.


32.
You must be appointed before reaching your 37th birthday unless you are a preference eligible veteran OR presently serve or have previously served in a Federal civilian law enforcement retirement-covered position (after subtracting the years/months of prior Federal service worked in a primary law enforcement position, you must be less than 37 years of age). Maximum entry age exemption requests will not be granted for any non-veteran preference eligible applicants. Therefore, unless you are a veteran preference eligible, if you are not given a final offer of employment prior to your 37th birthday, your file will be closed.
 I understand and acknowledge the above statement.
 I do not understand and do not acknowledge the above statement.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY


33.
I understand that the information provided on my resume, transcripts and this Assessment Questionnaire will be used to determine my eligibility and qualifications for the position. Therefore, it is recommended that I provide an accurate and detailed description of the duties performed in my current and former occupations.
 I understand and acknowledge the above statement.
 I do not understand and acknowledge the above statement.


34.
Knowingly and willfully withholding information or making false statements on this application constitutes a violation of Title 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1001 and will result in disqualification from the selection process. If the misrepresentation is discovered after hiring, you may be subject to inquiry and administrative or disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
 I hereby certify that all statements made by me on this application are true and complete to the best of my knowledge.
 I do not certify that all statements made by me on this application are true and complete to the best of my knowledge.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙