Position Title
Internal Revenue Agent (Anti-Money Laundering Examiner)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13056107P-SBN-0512-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. (AZ7887) 7350 W Camino San Xavier, Glendale, AZ
 B. (CA7023) 9350 Flair Drive, El Monte, CA
 C. (CA0316) 333 W Broadway, San Diego, CA
 D. (CO2191) 1365 Garden of the Gods Road, Colorado Springs, CO
 E. (PR4001) 48 Carr 165, Suite 2000, Guaynabo, PR


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

BASIC REQUIREMENTS All GRADES (ALSO MEETS GRADE 5 QUALIFICATIONS):
A Certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or a bachelor's or higher degree in accounting that included at least 30 semester hours in accounting or 24 semester hours in accounting and an additional 6 semester hours in related subjects such as business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
OR
A bachelor's or higher degree in a field other than accounting or a combination of education and experience equivalent to 4 years that included at least 30 semester hours in accounting or 24 semester hours in accounting and 6 semester hours in related subjects as described above.

AND
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
In addition to meeting the basic requirement, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience must have been in progressively responsible and diversified professional accounting or auditing work that required 1) knowledge of and skill in applying professional accounting principles, theory, and practices to analyze and interpret accounting books, records, or systems specifically to determine their effect on Federal tax liabilities and their adequacy for recording transactions affecting tax liabilities; 2) skill in interpreting and applying Federal tax law for individuals, business, and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations; 3) knowledge of business and trade practices to develop tax issues based on analysis and evaluation of overall business operations and financial condition; 4) knowledge of corporate financial transactions and financial management principles and practices; and 5) skill in interacting effectively with a broad range of individuals and in negotiating with specialists in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions.

Specialized experience for this position includes:
Progressively responsible and diversified professional accounting or auditing work that required the application of professional accounting principles, theory, and practices to analyze and interpret accounting books, records, or systems specifically to determine their effect on Federal tax liabilities and their adequacy for recording transactions affecting tax liabilities.
Applying Federal tax law for individuals, business and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations.
Applying business and trade practices to develop tax issues based on analysis and evaluation of overall business operations and financial condition.
Applying corporate financial transactions and financial management principles and practices.
Interacting effectively with a broad range of individuals and negotiating with specialists in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions.
Working technical and procedural matters relating to the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), IRC 6050I, Form 8300 (e.g. new and used car or boat dealerships, jewelers, wholesalers, etc.), business practices, and financial institutions (e.g. casinos, money transmitters, credit unions, and check cashiers) to assess the adequacy of anti-money laundering programs (AML).
Conducting compliance reviews for Title 31 and Title 26 to identify, detect and deter money laundering, and conduct risk-based examinations in Specialty Examination (e.g., Bank Secrecy Act Exam).


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: ALL GRADES:
Which is true about your Basic Qualifications?
 I have a degree from an accredited college or university that included the required number of accounting credits as mentioned above or the equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I have a Certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) obtained through written examination in a State, territory or the District of Columbia.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
In addition to meeting the basic requirement, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience must have been in progressively responsible and diversified professional accounting or auditing work that required 1) knowledge of and skill in applying professional accounting principles, theory, and practices to analyze and interpret accounting books, records, or systems specifically to determine their effect on Federal tax liabilities and their adequacy for recording transactions affecting tax liabilities; 2) skill in interpreting and applying Federal tax law for individuals, business, and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations; 3) knowledge of business and trade practices to develop tax issues based on analysis and evaluation of overall business operations and financial condition; 4) knowledge of corporate financial transactions and financial management principles and practices; and 5) skill in interacting effectively with a broad range of individuals and in negotiating with specialists in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions.Specialized experience for this position includes:
Progressively responsible and diversified professional accounting or auditing work that required the application of professional accounting principles, theory, and practices to analyze and interpret accounting books, records, or systems specifically to determine their effect on Federal tax liabilities and their adequacy for recording transactions affecting tax liabilities.
Applying Federal tax law for individuals, business and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations.
Applying business and trade practices to develop tax issues based on analysis and evaluation of overall business operations and financial condition.
Applying corporate financial transactions and financial management principles and practices.
Interacting effectively with a broad range of individuals and negotiating with specialists in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions.
Working technical and procedural matters relating to the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), IRC 6050I, Form 8300 (e.g. new and used car or boat dealerships, jewelers, wholesalers, etc.), business practices, and financial institutions (e.g. casinos, money transmitters, credit unions, and check cashiers) to assess the adequacy of anti-money laundering programs (AML).
Conducting compliance reviews for Title 31 and Title 26 to identify, detect and deter money laundering, and conduct risk-based examinations in Specialty Examination (e.g., Bank Secrecy Act Exam).
Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above


3.
What is your experience analyzing accounting systems?

 A. Used an indirect method to determine income or business activity by analyzing bank deposits, transaction records, and other financial data when complete accounting records were unavailable.
 B. Audit a business on an accrual basis.
 C. Audit a business that had certified financial statements.
 D. Audit a business by exporting data from their accounting software or electronic system.
 E. None of the above


4.
Which of the following statements describe your auditing and accounting experience?

 A. Examined documents, records, accounting reports, and processes to ensure compliance with accounting and auditing principles, laws and regulations.
 B. Provided guidance on laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or customers.
 C. Provided technical briefing to leadership on matters involving statutory provisions or regulatory requirements.
 D. None of the above


5.
For which of the following issues have you developed or written an examination/compliance report?

 A. Fraud referral (civil or criminal)
 B. International issues (e.g., Financial Crimes Investigation/Foreign Bank Financial Account Reports (FBAR))
 C. Precious Metals Stones Jewels (PMSJ) Dealers
 D. Virtual Currency
 E. Prepaid Access Program
 F. Injunction Referral
 G. Centralized Exam
 H. Casino Exam
 I. Employment Tax Exam
 J. None of the above


6.
Which of the following describe your compliance/examination experience?

 A. Work Financial Crimes Investigation/Foreign Bank Account Reports (FBAR)
 B. Work Employment Tax (ET) issue or made an ET referral
 C. Complete a Computer Audit Specialist (CAS)/Engineering referral
 D. Complete a Return Preparer referral or developed a Return Preparer Penalty
 E. Work an Abusive Transactions (AT) case
 F. Work or act as a Group Manager on a temporary or permanent assignment
 G. Participate on a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) Review Team
 H. None of the above


7.
Please select all of the following which describe your experience with written communication to further develop your case.

 A. Prepare F:5104 for FinCEN Civil Penalty Consideration
 B. Prepare F:2797 for a IRS Criminal Referral
 C. Coordinate with National Office Counsel or Area Counsel
 D. Request guidance from Headquarters Subject Matter Expert (SME) or Fraud Technical Advisor (FTA)
 E. Make a referral using Specialist Referral System (SRS)
 F. Prepared a Related Statute Memorandum
 G. None of the above


8.
Please indicate your collateral duties/detail experience while working cases.

 A. Serve as an expert or summary witness
 B. Worked on a grand jury case
 C. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME)
 D. Served as a cooperating agent
 E. None of the above


9.
Please check all of the following which relate to your workplace engagement experience(s).

 A. Served as Internal Revenue Agent (IRA) On-the-Job Instructor (OJI) or other technical positions (i.e., Revenue Officer (RO)).
 B. Presented technical presentation to group or at Continuing Professional Education (CPE)
 C. Served as classroom and/or Virtual Instructor for Internal Revenue Agent (IRA) or other technical positions (i.e., Revenue Officer (RO)).
 D. Served as a Lead classroom and/or Virtual Instructor for Internal Revenue Agent (IRA) or other technical positions (i.e., Revenue Officer (RO))
 E. Served on a Classification detail
 F. Participated in a related task force (e.g., specialty teams, process improvement teams, Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) task force).
 G. Detailed assignment as an acting Group Manager and provided formal written performance feedback to employee(s)
 H. None of the above


10.
Which of the following best describe your experience managing workload inventory?

 Managed workloads containing a variety of assignments that were subject to changing priorities.
 Managed workloads containing a variety of assignments that were subject to changing priorities along with being a consultant to the team for a specialized technical issue.
 Managed workloads containing a variety of assignments that were subject to changing priorities along with leading a team.
 Managed workloads containing a variety of assignments that were subject to changing priorities along with being a team member on a team assignment.
 None of the above.


11.
Which of the following actions do you take on a compliance/examination case?

 A. Conducted interviews with the appropriate party to develop the facts in an open compliance/examination case
 B. Overcame issues when dealing with uncooperative/confrontational customer, taxpayer or representatives
 C. Presented law, regulations or court cases to substantiate the government’s position
 D. Explained payment options to taxpayer and or representatives
 E. Audited a business by exporting data from their accounting software or electronic system
 F. Reported findings/recommendations on technical or compliance issues to senior level management
 G. None of the above


12.
Which of the following steps have you taken while conducting an examination in order to gather information and develop facts?

 A. Issued a Summons for a taxpayer to appear before the service
 B. Issued a Summons to a third party for information
 C. Made a third party contact with vendors, associates, other non-financial institutions, local law enforcement or government agencies
 D. Discussed Circular 230 with Power of Attorney (POA) and subsequently executed by-pass procedures
 E. Worked with a Technical Advisor (TA) or Subject Matter Expert (SME) to develop a complex technical issue
 F. None of the above


13.
Which of the following best describes your experience conducting research to resolve tax-related questions through interpreting laws?

 Conducted research for resolving potentially high impact problems involving interpretation of conflicting guidance.
 Independently conducted research and made sound judgments in interpretation based upon published guidance.
 Independently conducted research to resolve complex or novel (e.g., conflicting court cases, lacking precedents) issues with broad application and conflicting guidance.
 None of the above


14.
Which of the following research tools have you utilized?

 A. Westlaw
 B. Lexis-Nexis
 C. Accurint
 D. CCH (online or CD-ROM)
 E. Internal Revenue Manual (online or hard copy
 F. FinCEN Query System
 G. Internal Revenue Code and Regulations
 H. None of the above


15.
Which of the following audit techniques do you conduct in determining compliance?

 A. Bank Deposits with Cash Expenditures method
 B. Risk Assessments
 C. Cash flow analysis
 D. FinCEN Query
 E. Assessing internal controls
 F. Indirect method
 G. None of the above.


16.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙