Position Title
DIRECTOR OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-27-13080791-DISES
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 20, 2026
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Education Requirement
1.
This position has an education requirement. Please describe how you meet this requirement:
 A bachelor’s degree in accounting or a related field (such as business administration, finance, or public administration) that included at least 24 semester hours in accounting OR A Combination of Education and Experience that includes: At least 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing (which can include up to 6 hours in business law) and a combination of professional experience, a CPA certificate, or being a member of a recognized professional accounting association.
 I do not meet the education requirement.
