Position Title
Supervisory Legal Administrative Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-NDTX-12965270-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current employee of the Department of Justice (DOJ)? If you are a current permanent DOJ employee in the competitive service and currently hold a position at the next lower grade, at the same grade, or at a grade higher than this position being advertised, you may qualify to apply as a current agency employee. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, that reflects current employment with the DOJ and career/career-conditional tenure (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND status in the competitive service (Positional Occupied field is 1). You may also be required to submit your most recent performance appraisal, check the announcement to verify documentation requirements.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Abilene, TX
 B. Amarillo, TX
 C. Lubbock, TX


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For the following question, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-12 Supervisory Legal Administrative Specialist.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience organizing and directing the activities of legal support staff; providing legal, technical, and clerical support to attorneys; providing technical advice to legal support staff; assisting attorneys and managing legal support staff in organizing voluminous case information; performing a variety of complex legal administration support relating to the management and administrative support of a Branch Office.
 I do not have the education or experience as described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


2.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


You have submitted your answers for the Assessment Questionnaire. If you provided an email address, you will receive a confirmation email upon receipt of the Assessment Questionnaire. Please review the Vacancy Announcement to assure that you have submitted all necessary supporting documents. Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙