Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OR-12993875-T5-26-024 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
National Guard- All On-Board In-State National Guard Title 5 Excepted Employees (NG T5 Perm Empl).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions honestly and completely. Any failure to complete the assessment may result in your disqualification from consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
To qualify for this position, you must have:
A. One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in duties that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled.

OR

B. A Masters degree or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. Education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.

OR

C. A combination of Experience as described in "A" above and Education as described in "B" above.


Do you meet the minimum qualifications listed above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently possess a Federal Security Clearance OR would you be able to obtain and maintain an interim/full security clearance within twelve months from date of hire? The Security Clearance requirements for this position are located within the announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is only open to the following areas of consideration:

Area 1: All on board Permanent T5 federal employees within the Oregon Army National Guard

Do you meet at least one of the areas of consideration?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please provide a brief narrative response describing your work experience as it relates to the position you are applying for:


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙