Position Title
Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
WO-1614-VRP-26-12939940-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


3.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week or full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify I have read and understood this requirement. I understand I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


Work Schedules: Please note there are two different types of work schedules being offered depending on the park and location.
Full-time (position works on a year-round basis)
Full-time, Career-Seasonal (Career-Seasonal appointments are also permanent positions and include the same benefits as full-time, permanent appointments, but do not provide work on a year-round basis. You will be in a non-pay status for a period of time each year, and non-pay status is dependent on the location of the position being hired.)


4.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement.

Please note: You will be required to submit proof of a valid Motor Vehicle Operator's License before your entrance-on-duty date. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this license requirement.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be not be considered for this position.


MANDATORY ENTRY AGE (MEA)
Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age, AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement and upon appointment to this position. The maximum entry age of 37 applies to this position. This is a primary position covered by enhanced retirement provisions which stipulate mandatory retirement at age 57 after 20 years of service (5 U.S.C. 3307 for Federal Law Enforcement positions).

Acceptable exceptions:
1.) An applicant has prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57; OR
2.) An applicant is a qualified veterans' preference eligible, in which case the MEA is waived and their corresponding retirement age may be higher than 57 after completing 20 years of service; OR
3.) An applicant is in receipt of an official Maximum Entry Age Waiver Memorandum approved by the National Park Service, Director of Law Enforcement (the applicant must upload this document with their application) AND is under the age of 40 years.


5.
MANDATORY MINIMUM ENTRY AGE

Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I am at least 21 years old.
 I do not meet the minimum entry age requirement as listed above.


6.
MANDATORY MAXIMUM ENTRY AGE

Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement and upon appointment to this position OR you meet one of the mandatory entry age exceptions. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I am at least 21 years old and under the age of 37; I will not exceed the age of 37 at the time of appointment.
 I am 37 years of age or older and have prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND a veterans’ preference eligible.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND under the age of 40 years AND in receipt an official Maximum Entry Age Waiver Memorandum approved by the National Park Service, Director of Law Enforcement.
 I do not meet the maximum entry age requirements as listed above.


7.
Certified Emergency Medical Technician by the National Registry OR by a State EMS organization.

Important Notes:
Some parks require Park Ranger (Protection) to be certified Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT).
To be referred for the EMT designation, you must meet the following Selective Placement Factors in addition to the Park Ranger (Protection) qualification standards.
All applications will be reviewed for Park Ranger (Protection) without EMT certifications, however, EMT are additional specialties that applicants can be considered for Emergency Medical Technician designation.
Applicants must be certified by the National Registry OR by a State EMS organization in order to be referred for the EMT designation.
You MUST indicate in your resume the expiration date of your certificate.
 I currently possess a Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) or higher level certification (Documentation included in resume or application materials).
 I do not currently possess a Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) or higher level certification, but will be able to obtain it by entrance on duty (Documentation included in resume or application materials).
 I do not possess a Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) or higher level certification and will not be able to obtain it by entrance on duty.


8.
Certified Emergency Medical Responder or First Responder by the National Registry OR by a State EMS organization.

Important Notes:
Some parks require Park Ranger (Protection) to be certified Emergency Medical Responder or First Responder (FR).
To be referred for the FR designation, you must meet the following Selective Placement Factors in addition to the Park Ranger (Protection) qualification standards.
All applications will be reviewed for Park Ranger (Protection) without FR certifications, however, FR are additional specialties that applicants can be considered for Emergency Medical Responder or First Responder designation.
Applicants must be certified by the National Registry OR by a State EMS organization in order to be referred for the FR designation. You MUST indicate in your resume the expiration date of your certificate.
 I currently possess a Emergency Medical Responder or First Responder or higher level certification (Documentation included in resume or application materials).
 I do not currently possess a Emergency Medical Responder or First Responder or higher level certification, but will be able to obtain it by entrance on duty (Documentation included in resume or application materials).
 I do not possess a Emergency Medical Responder or First Responder or higher level certification and will not be able to obtain it by entrance on duty.


9.
INSTRUCTIONS: This position has a optional preference that applicants must possess conversational fluency in the Spanish language. (IMPORTANT: If you select this response, your resume must describe the language you speak and your level of fluency).

Do you currently possess conversational fluency in the Spanish language (in addition to English) that allows you to communicate information verbally to visitors on the spot?
 Yes
 No


Location Negotiable is when an agency has multiple agency worksites where a position can be filled, and the position is not designated as remote. If you select "Location Negotiable," you are agreeing that you are willing to be hired and placed at any park location listed in the job opportunity announcement. However, for this temporary promotion/detail job opportunity announcement, every effort will be made for the selectee(s) to be placed at their current park if a position is available.


10.
Location Negotiable Verification: Location Negotiable after Selection is when an agency has multiple agency worksites where a position can be filled, and the position is not designated as remote. By responding "Yes" to this Location Negotiable item, you are certifying that you are willing to be hired and placed at any park location listed in the participating locations link found in the job opportunity announcement. However, applicants will have the opportunity to learn more about which locations are hiring, and accept or decline a specific location prior to entrance-on-duty. To the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in these preferences are true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION SECTION: THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT ALL RESPONSES. IF NOT, YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED AND/OR YOU WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Park Ranger (Protection), GL-0025-07


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Protection), GL-0025-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GL-05/GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as performing law enforcement work as asworn officer with a Federal, state, tribal and/or local agency, OR the military, that included oversight and assistance of a senior law enforcement officer.
 I possess one full academic year of graduate education related to the occupation in a directly-related field such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement, police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your degree in your resume and submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts to support the degree earned. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I meet the Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) provision. SAA is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade-point average, or 3) honor society membership. Specific requirements are: 1) Class Standing: Upper third of graduating class based on completed courses; 2a) Grade Point Average: 3.0 or higher as recorded on official transcript or as computed based on 4 years of education; 2b) based on courses completed during the final full 2 years of curriculum; or 2c) 3.5 or higher based on average of courses completed in the specific major field of study; or 3) Honor Society Membership: Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society listed in the Association of College Honor Societies, Booklet of Information, and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities (membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision). (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I possess a combination of education and experience as described above. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Park Ranger (Protection), GL-0025-09


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Protection), GL-0025-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GL-07/GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as independently performing law enforcement work as asworn officer with a Federal, state, tribal and/or local agency, OR the military.
 I possess at least 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree related to the occupation in directly-related fields such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your degree in your resume and submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts to support the degree earned. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I possess a combination of education and experience as described above. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


Read the following question carefully and select the response below that best describes your qualifications/certifications in this area. Failure to respond to the question will result in an ineligible rating.


Police Training Program (Selective Factor)


3.
Applicants must have worked in a sworn officer position within the last 3 years AND successfully completed a Police Training Program certified by, sponsored by, a local, state, tribal, or Federal agency, or by the military
OR
Must have successfully completed a Police Training Program certified by, sponsored by, or approved by, a local, state, tribal, or Federal agency, or by the military within the last 3 years.
 I have been in a sworn officer position within the last 3 years AND successfully completed a Police Training Program as described above.
 I have successfully completed a Police Training Program within the last 3 years as described above.
 I have NOT completed a Police Training Program as described above.


Certification Statement:


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙