Position Title
Marketing Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13076609 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Questions Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Marketing Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
A bachelor's degree from an accredited university in public relations, marketing, communication, graphic design, or other closely related field with two years' experience is strongly preferred, but may be substituted by equivalent education, training and work experience to include 4 years' experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.

 A Master’s degree with a major in one of the related fields listed above and a minimum of 1 year of full-time experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.
 A Bachelor’s degree with a major in one of the related fields listed above and a minimum of 2 years of full-time experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.
 A combination of education, training and work experience to include 4 years of experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.
 I have none of the above


2.
Do you have a valid state driver's license?

 I do have a valid driver’s license and will be able to furnish proof at the time of interview
 I do not have a valid driver’s license


3.
Years of experience working in public relations, event marketing, communications, graphic designing

 5+ years of documented working experience
 4 to 5 years of documented working experience
 3 to 4 years of documented working experience
 2 to 3 years of documented working experience
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year or no documented working experience


4.
What is your experience in building platforms on Social Media (Facebook, Pintrest, Twitter, Instagram, You Tube, Tumbir, Snapchat and Flickr)

 5+ years of the above mentioned platforms
 3 to 4 of the above mentioned platforms
 1 to 2 of the above mentioned platforms
 No experience


5.
What is your documented Video Experience?
 Ability to film/edit and post video clips/messages and DSLR photography
 Ability to film/edit video clips messages and DSLR photography
 Ability to film video clips/messages and DSLR photography
 No experience or documented experience


6.
What programs are you proficient in using (mark all that apply):
 A. Adobe InDesign
 B. Photoshop
 C. Illustrator
 D. Corel Draw
 E. Adobe Dreamweaver
 F. Fireworks
 G. Acrobat
 H. Microsoft Word
 I. Excel
 J. Power Point
 K. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙