Position Title
Director, Global Affairs
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13039140 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


9.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized Experience for the GS-15 you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 
-Experience developing counter-illicit finance policies related to the implementation of international counter-illicit finance best practices and standards at the regional and national level; AND
-Experience representing an agency or business in engagements with foreign governments, international organizations, and the private sector; AND
-Experience working with the financial sector to further anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy priorities and goals.; AND
-Experience assessing the threat posed by illicit financial networks, presenting such assessments, and recommending policy options to senior executive-level officials.; AND
-Experience managing projects, leading teams, and mentoring staff in the preparation of briefing memoranda, talking points, and other written products for senior executive-level officials. 

Select the answer that best describes your experience.

 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙