Position Title
Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic Leader
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
IPA1 - 26 - 13068111 - DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


COE
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires a candidate to possess and maintain a universal CFC certification as required by 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F. I certify that I possess and am willing to maintain a universal CFC certification as required by 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position may require the incumbent to respond to emergency calls after regular working hours. I certify that I am willing to respond to emergency calls after regular working hours.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires the incumbent to assure that environmental, safety and housekeeping rules are followed. I certify that I am willing to assure that environmental, safety and housekeeping rules are followed.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic Leader duties.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex leader duties to include working as a leader in a group or team. Establishing deadlines and priorities and leading subordinate employees in tasks to include planning, laying out, installing, troubleshooting, repairing, maintaining, and overhauling commercial air conditioning units/systems of various cooling capacities, refrigeration systems, heat pumps, ventilation equipment, air compressors units. I pass on to other workers instructions received by the supervisor and assign immediate tasks to be performed. I check the work in progress and when the work is finished, I check for compliance with the supervisor's instructions. I answer any workers' questions about procedures, policies, or instructions. I make complex repairs to include installing and fitting connecting rods, crank shafts, piston rings, bearings and bushings; overhauling valves by adjusting or replacing gaskets, springs, floats diaphragms, valve fittings, seals, and couplings; aligning motors and flywheel drives.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of experience leading subordinate employees. I lead team members by scheduling work and preventive maintenance to include repair or replacement and maintenance of major components of HVAC systems such as chilled water and split system air-cooled condensers, heat recovery systems, compressors, water distribution pumps, air handlers and fan coil units; calculate airflow, and the pressure temperature characteristics of different systems to locate and repair faulty equipment; changing compressor oil, cleaning cooling towers, lubing motors and pumps. I am skilled in performing a wide range of maintenance and repair tasks for various capacities of HVAC systems and components, refrigeration systems, heat pumps, air compressors, heat reclaimers. I perform troubleshooting tasks utilizing building automated systems to diagnose problems with direct digital control as well as mechanical components.
 I have the ability to perform common lead duties to include, setting work priorities, demonstrating proper work and safety procedures, install new split and package HVAC systems; diagnose and repair of electrical problems, replacing compressors, condenser fans, blower wheels, bearings and other HVAC system components. I use plans and blueprints to locate and repair HVAC system mechanical, electric/electronic components.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks related to HVAC and refrigeration systems maintenance, such as replacing filters, cleaning condensing and evaporative coils, lubing electrical and pump motors, checking refrigerant pressures, cleaning condensation pans.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙