Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12838552-26-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 20, 2025 to Friday, November 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 B. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 C. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 D. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 E. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 F. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 G. Batavia Immigration Court, Batavia, NY
 H. New York Immigration Court (Broadway) / (Federal Plaza), New York, NY
 I. Ulster Immigration Court, Ulster County, NY
 J. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 K. Richmond Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 L. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?
 Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do NOT possess this education.


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia).


3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?
 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar.


4.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA).


5.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-12 position.
 Yes, I have 1 full year (12 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: (1) Monitoring and examining formal filings for legal sufficiency and reviewing submissions from party representatives to ensure procedural requirements are met; (2) Developing and preparing interpretive and administrative documents under relevant statutes and regulations; and (3) Demonstrating a commitment to personal and organizational success.
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙