Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12856501-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

Your application package will be reviewed to verify answers.  

Please ensure your resume clearly reflects specific details of experience, lists complete dates of employment, and indicates if the employment was part time (list hours per week) or Full time to properly credit your experience. 

Resume/CV required Resume: Your resume should include the following information for each job that you list: Job title; Complete Workplace Addresses; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time, part-time status (include hours worked per week).

Example: 
TrebleCorp, 1234 Anywhere USA
Bio-Medical Engineer
3/10/2020-Current Full time
I was responsible for and completed tasks that included:
Designing and creating biomedical technology such as artificial internal organs and body parts, machines, equipment, and software that can be used for diagnosing and treating medical problems.
Installing and calibrating biomedical machines, equipment, and software.
Evaluating the safety, efficiency, and effectiveness of biomedical machines, equipment, and software.
Working in the research and development or quality assurance positions at their companies.
Helpful training links: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XeSxzezvY8 Applying to federal jobs and how it works
What to include on a FEDERAL resume - YouTube Federal resume training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HY5Z_pfFUK4 Looking for jobs and applying to Fed jobs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-fYgeDJpYI The Federal Employment Process: Resources and Frequently Asked


1.
Basic Requirements:

Please choose the response that best describes your education. Please ensure you attach transcripts and any certifications claimed, to your application. Failure to do so may result in disqualification.
 Bachelors degree or Higher in Engineering. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
 Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelors degree not listed in item 2.A. above.
 I do not have a professional engineering, certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer and a bachelor's degree not listed above, or the Grandfathering Provision does not pertain to me.


Preferences


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 A. 7
 B. 9
 C. 11
 D. 12


The following questions are used to determine qualification at the GS 9 grade level. Select "yes" or "no" to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS 7 level?

OR

Do you have a Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study

OR

Do you have a Bachelor's degree (Accepted degrees: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering) AND two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you posess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS- 09 grade level?

OR

Have you completed a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering?

OR

Have you completed Bachelor's degree, plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study?

Completion of at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level GS-07, and must be fully meet the KSAs at that level.  Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.


 Yes
 No


5.
Do you posess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS- 11 grade level?

OR

Have you completed post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering ?

Completion of at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level GS-09, and must be fully meet the KSAs at that level.  Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
Ability to implement and/or sustain an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.
 Ability to develop material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare.
 Ability to advise [ ] staff on emerging medical [ ] technology[, or research procedures], while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems.
Knowledge of basic project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Please indicate if you poses the Specialized Experience required for the GS-12 and that your resume clearly reflects:
Experience.
Completion of at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level GS-11, and must be fully meet the KSAs at that level.  Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.
Ability to conduct a medical equipment management [or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies.
 Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and [TJC] requirements.
Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
 Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


7.
Perform preventative maintenance on equipment documents accordingly.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


Resume, transcripts and degree certificate must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. If you neglect to attach these documents, you will automatically be disqualified from the selection process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙