Position Title
Deputy Chief Investment Officer
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-26-016-DE-12937007-KC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you eligible for appointment under the Excepted Service authority (Schedule A) for Individuals with intellectual disabilities, severe physical disabilities or psychiatric disabilities? [5CFR 213.3102(u)]
 Yes
 No


5.

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Instructions for Specialized Experience Questions
The next question asks about your specialized experience.  Specialized experience is the type of work that gives you the specific knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of this position.  It must be directly related to the work of the job you are applying for.
Before you answer, please keep the following in mind:
Your experience must match the level and type of work performed at the next lower grade.  For example, to quality for a GS-15 position, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level.
We base qualifications on the work you actually performed, not on job titles, military rank, or pay.  Be sure your answers reflect your real duties and responsibilities noted in your resume.
Both paid and unpaid experience can count, including volunteer work, as long as it relates to the job and meets the required level of responsibility.
If you performed higher-level or different duties through details, special assignments, or mixed-grade work, you may claim that experience if it is documented and you can show the percentage of time spent on those duties.
One year of experience means 12 months or 52 weeks of qualifying work.  Part-time experience is pro-rated based on a full-time equivalent work year (2,087 hours).
Please answer the next question carefully and honestly.  Your responses should clearly reflect your experience performing duties that are directly related to this position and at the required grade level.


1.
Specialized Experience Question
To qualify at the GS-15 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to or higher than the GS-14 level in the Federal service.  This experience must include all of the following:
Leading analysis of investment performance, benchmarks, and cash flows to evaluate managers and advising leadership on portfolio decisions.
Directing due diligence and ongoing oversight of external investment managers to ensure compliance, manage risk, and improve overall investment results.
Managing competitive procurements for investment or financial services to select, oversee, and evaluate contractors supporting institutional investment programs.
Developing compliance policies and led complex studies to address emerging risks and provide recommendations to senior leaders with minimal supervision.
Based on the specialized experience listed above, please select the statement that best describes your experience.  You must clearly document this experience in your resume.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to or higher than the GS-14 grade level, and my experience includes all four of the duties listed above.
 I do not have one full year of GS-11 equivalent specialized experience, or my experience does not include all four duties listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙