Position Title
Electrician
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12895560-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 26, 2026 to Mar 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electrician position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties which include operating and installing industrial electrical systems, circuits, equipment and controls; Reading blueprints, building plans, wiring diagrams and engineering drawings; Determining work methods to accomplish assignments. I am skilled in utilizing hand tools and various test equipment of the trade and interpreting plans, layouts and specifications for projects. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of installing industrial electrical systems, circuits, equipment and controls; Apply knowledge of blueprints, building plans, wiring diagrams and engineering drawings; Identifying work methods to accomplish assignments. I am skilled in utilizing basic hand tools, standard test equipment and reading plans, layout and specifications for projects. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties such as assist with installing industrial electrical systems, circuits, equipment and controls and apply knowledge of work methods to assist in accomplishing assignments. I can utilize hand tools and test equipment and recognize symbols and markings on plans, layouts and specifications. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties as a journey-level worker in supplying the work area with required tools and supplies to accomplish assignments.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.  Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙