Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
GU-13033509-AR-26-024 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently a member of the Guam National Guard, eligible for employment under Title 32 status?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Title 5 or Title 32 permanent or indefinite employee of the Guam Army National Guard?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently serving in the Guam Army National Guard in the military grade of E-5 through E-7?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 or GS-07 level that provided knowledge of organizations and their functions in logistical support (i.e., supply, maintenance, quality assurance, facilities)?
 Yes
 No


5.

Applicants may qualify for this position based on education in lieu of specialized experience.

At the GS07 level, qualifying education must consist of:

1 full year of graduate level education or
superior academic achievement

At the GS09 level, qualifying education must consist of:

master's or equivalent graduate degree or
2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
Do you wish to be considered based on qualifying education in lieu of specialized experience?
 Yes - I will submit transcripts to support qualifications.
 No - I qualify based on specialized experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that my resume and all supporting documents accurately describe my qualifications, experience, and training, including applicable dates. I understand that false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙