Position Title
Equipment Repair Tech (Community Recreation)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12856057 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Jan 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Applicant must have experience with maintenance and repairs of outdoor recreation and party/picnic/event equipment. Describe your experience level.
 Three or more years of experience.
 2-3 year of experience
 One year of experience
 Less than one year of experience


2.
Describe your experience working with boats and or watersports on Lake Michigan.
 Three or more years of experience
 Two years of experience
 One year of experience
 Less than one year of experience


3.
Do you have at least one years' experience and a current license to operate a 6k forklift?
 Yes
 No


4.
Describe your experience providing direct customer service.
 Three or more years of experience.
 Two to 3 years of experience
 One year experience
 Less than one year of experience


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
A valid state driver's license is required for this position. Do you currently have a valid state driver's license? PROOF MUST BE ATTACHED TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THIS POSITION.
 Yes
 No


6.
Describe your experience in establishing regular cycles for equipment preventative maintenance.
 Three or more years of experience
 Two to three years of experience
 One year of experience
 Less than one year of experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙