Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12847665-26-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 23, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 B. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 A. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS) position with the VHA. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. NOTE: Grandfathering Provision: A Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS) employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (3/13/2019), are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Grandfathering Provision. All BRSs employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification(s) that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required equivalent credential(s) as a condition of employment in the occupation.
If a BRS who was retained under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.
Do you meet the grandfathering provision?
 Yes
 No


Basic Requirements:


2.
Education and Experience: The following education requirement applies to the Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS). Please select the option that best describes your education level (must supply transcripts):

Note: Foreign graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
 A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation, special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education.
 A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in (1)(a) above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following: a. At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university). b. One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically at least 15 -18 semester hours). c. A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree. d. Foreign Graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
 I meet the grandfathering provision.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification (required at the GS-11 grade level): Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment. Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation.

BRS who provide the following service must obtain certification granted by ACVREP as follows:
(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS).
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
(d) Assistive technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialist (CATIS).

Do you possess the required certification(s) for the grade level in which you are applying for?
 Yes
 No


4.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


Grade Level Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates:


5.
BRS, GS-9 (Entry Level):
Experience: Bachelor's degree and completion of one year of experience.
OR
Education: Completion of at least two full years of progressive graduate education or a master's degree in a field directly related to the position (must supply transcripts).
AND
Certification: No certification is required at this level.

Please select the option that best describes your experience or education level (must supply transcripts):
 B. Bachelor’s degree and completion of one year of experience.
 A. Completion of at least two full years of progressive graduate education or a master’s degree in a field directly related to the position.
 C. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for GS-9: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of the blind/vision rehabilitation service.
Knowledge of administration and interpretation of assessments and evaluations in blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to develop a basic written blind/vision rehabilitation plan from assessment results and develop more complex plans with consultation from supervisor.
Skill in instructing Veterans and families in a meaningful rehabilitation program and applying blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic techniques.
Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision prosthetic devices for Veterans within the scope of practice.
Ability to serve as team coordinator for assigned Veterans during their rehabilitation programs.
Does your resume demonstrate the required KSA's for the grade level in which you are applying for?
 Yes
 No


7.
BRS, GS-11 (Full Performance Level):
Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade demonstrating the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of the blind/vision rehabilitation service.
Knowledge of administration and interpretation of assessments and evaluations in blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to develop a basic written blind/vision rehabilitation plan from assessment results and develop more complex plans with consultation from supervisor.
Skill in instructing [Veterans] and families in a meaningful rehabilitation program and applying blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic techniques.
Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision prosthetic devices for Veterans within the scope of practice.
Ability to serve as team coordinator for assigned Veterans during their rehabilitation programs.
OR
Education: Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly related field (must supply transcripts).
AND
Certification: Certification is required at this grade level and above. Staff BRS candidates must meet the certification requirements in paragraph 4c(2) above. BRSs at the GS-11 grade level must have at least one certification from ACVREP or a related, equivalent, professional certification.

Please select the option that best describes your experience or education level (must supply transcripts):
 Completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade.
 Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly related field.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for GS-11: In addition to meeting the KSAs at the GS-9 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to properly assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
Skill in writing a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
Skill in instructional methods and learning principles.
Ability to employ interventions and unusual motivational techniques and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan.
Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for Veterans within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.
Does your resume demonstrate the required KSA's for the grade level in which you are applying for?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙