Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (SAC)
Agency
U.S. Agency for International Development
Announcement Number
CCBH-26-ST-12980503-CJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources:  https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who: 

• Is on Active Duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who has a disability rating of 100 percent due to injury while on active duty?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

To verify your eligibility: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility which may include:
documentation to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days (current military orders/statement of service)
verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);
verification of the member's 100 percent disability; (VA Letter AND the service members DD-214) and/or;
verification of the member's death while on active duty. (DD-1300)


Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form. To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current Competitive Service Career or Career-Conditional employee within the federal government?

To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


6.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

-OR-

Are you a current: 
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee? 

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of a disability letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist or any federal, state or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 Yes
 No


9.
I was formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment, but I am not a current permanent federal employee.

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
To verify your eligibility you MUST submit a copy of your most recent competitive career/career conditional separation SF50 AND you must submit a copy of an SF50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis).
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:

• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. USAJOBS Veterans resources

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Special Agent in Charge), GS-1811-15 position with U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Inspector General (OIG). We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirements Statement - MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS: The duties of positions in this series require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision in each eye, with or without correction, is required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Near vision, corrective lenses permitted, must be sufficient to read printed material the size of typewritten characters. Hearing loss, as measured by an audiometer, must not exceed 35 decibels at 1000, 2000, and 3000 Hz levels. Since the duties of these positions are exacting and responsible, and involve activities under trying conditions, applicants must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the applicant to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying. OTHER REQUIREMENTS: This position is covered under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c)(1) or 5 U.S.C. 8412(d). Prior to entering on duty, applicants must have three years of prior experience in a primary law enforcement position and immediate prior experience in a position approved for coverage under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c)(1) or 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), since this position includes responsibility directly involving and supervising the investigation of criminal activity. This position is also covered by the law enforcement officer retirement provisions and has a mandatory age requirement. If applicants are over the age of 37, they must have been or currently covered by the special retirement provisions and be able to complete at least 20 years of covered service by age 57.
 Yes, I meet, or will meet, all of the requirements as described in the individual occupational requirements statement above.
 No, I do not meet the occupational requirements above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Criminal Investigator at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: 1) supervising and coordinating complex and large-scale criminal/civil and administrative investigations, including those requiring the participation of foreign governments, international organizations (i.e. United Nations), and/or multiple domestic agency investigative organizations, and (2) directing or overseeing the use of investigative analysis to detect fraud, waste, or abuse, and evaluate risks and vulnerabilities to agency programs, and (3) providing direction, advising on courses of action/resolution of complex investigative and administrative issues, and ensuring all reports and documents are accurate and timely.
 No, I do not meet the requirements above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Have you successfully completed any of the following criminal investigator courses: Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Academy; Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Academy; or Criminal Investigator Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC)?  (You must include course transcripts or certificate of completion with this application)
 Yes
 No


4.
Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have professional experience supervising:
 A. Supervising searches associated with the execution of search warrant(s)
 B. Supervising and approving physical surveillances
 C. Approving and supervising consensual monitoring(s)
 D. Approving and supervising undercover operations
 E. Approving and supervising the service of subpoenas
 F. Initiating and supervising performance improvement plans
 G. Serving as the recommending official in the disciplinary process
 H. None of the above


5.
Select the choice that best describes your law enforcement experience handling demanding and stressful situations.
 I have dealt with lightly stressful situations (e.g. basic law enforcement investigatory and operational requirements (interviewing witnesses and subjects, arresting individuals in a controlled environment, serving warrants, testified in grand juries, etc.))
 I have dealt with moderately stressful situations (e.g. executing felony traffic stops, arresting individuals in unsafe/uncontrolled/hostile environments, testifying at trial, etc.)
 I have dealt with highly stressful situations (e.g. coordinating and leading interagency teams of law enforcement officers in complex operations and environments, including overseas, and/or with divergent assets, physically extradited individuals from overseas, etc.).
 None of the above


6.
In which areas do you have experience conducting and supervising criminal, civil, and/or administrative investigations? (Check all that apply)
 A. Complex fraud investigations
 B. Internal affairs and employee misconduct investigations
 C. Public corruption investigations
 D. Ethics and conflict of interest investigations
 E. None of the above


7.
Please indicate which best describes your experience communicating technical issues to an audience in complex fraud, white collar, internal affairs, or public corruption investigations:
 I have extensive experience effectively communicating technical or controversial issues to audience members. Prior to my communication, the audience had little or no prior understanding of the issues..
 I have experience effectively communicating technical or controversial issues to audience members. Prior to my communication, the audience had a similar understanding of the issues.
 I have limited experience communicating technical issues to audience members. Prior to my communication, the audience had mixed levels of understanding.
 I have not had the opportunity to communicate in a similar fashion, but I am prepared to learn this task on the job.
 I have acquired knowledge or training in this field, but have not yet had the opportunity to apply this knowledge in a practical manner.


8.
Please indicate which best describes your experience writing, editing, and approving investigative reports related to complex fraud, white collar, internal affairs, or public corruption investigations:
 A. I have written, edited, and approved reports of interviews, record reviews, and other typical investigative tasks.
 B. I have written, edited, and approved reports regarding an inspection or quality assurance review.
 C. I have written, edited, and approved comprehensive investigative reports, such as a report of investigation.
 D. I have authored and reviewed probable cause statements in support of a warrant or complaint.
 E. I have limited experience with these work products, or my reports related to less complex investigations.
 F. I do not have any experience writing investigative reports related to a complex federal investigation, but am prepared to learn this on the job


9.
Describe your experience leading a law enforcement team in complex fraud, white collar, internal affairs, or public corruption investigations:. Check all that apply
 A. I have successfully led a team composed primarily of criminal investigators or other law enforcement officers.
 B. I have successfully led a team composed primarily of other (non-law enforcement) public safety officers.
 C. I have successfully led a team, but it was not related to law enforcement or public safety.
 D. I do not have any experience leading teams.


10.
Please describe your ability to develop and supervise an investigative work plan in complex fraud, white collar, internal affairs, or public corruption investigations.
 I have measurable extensive experience developing and supervising investigative work plans.
 I don’t have any experience in this area, but am prepared to learn this task on the job.
 I have extensive experience in this area and have been identified as an expert.
 I have knowledge of this activity, but have not had the opportunity to apply this knowledge in a measurable manner.
 I have experience developing and supervising other types of work plans or action plans, but this experience was not directly related to a criminal, civil, or administrative investigation.


11.
Please indicate which of the following best describes your experience with managing and supervising employees.
 I have served as a first-line supervisor or team leader for over a year.
 I have served as a manager, with responsibility for supervising other team leaders or first-line supervisors for less than a year.
 I have served as a manager, with responsibility for supervising other team leaders or first-line supervisors for over a year.
 None of the above.


12.
Select the choice that best describes your experience in developing plans for and administering a nationwide program or an organization.
 I have independently developed both short and long-range plans for a program or organization (e.g. set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources)
 I have participated in a working group with others to develop plans for a program or organization and were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities
 I have overseen the development of plans that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities.
 None of the above


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


13.
Which statement best describes your experience supervising subordinates or team members to ensure that senior management's objectives were met, that senior management was provided with accurate and timely information, and that administrative processes were in place and working effectively?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
Have you supervised and mentored other law enforcement officers in their analysis to identify evidence of criminal, civil or administrative violations?
 Yes
 No


15.
Select the statements that describe your experience negotiating and/or influencing others through oral communication.
 I have participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems with individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (e.g., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation).
 I have regularly conducted discussions in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups in an effort to professionally develop or grow the persons or groups, and accurately documented the discussions.
 None of the above


16.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


17.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


18.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


19.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


20.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fired or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙