Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-CS-13079426-27-BF-NBU
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND , your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center . To verify your eligibility , you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Denver, CO
 Washington, DC
 Saint Paul, MN
 Nashville, TN
 Seattle, WA
2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Program Analyst 41591A Min Quals
.
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
.
This announcement is ONLY open to qualified current Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) AND former Veterans Affairs (VA) career/career-conditional employees who are CTAP eligible. Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.
1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for the Program Analyst, GS-0343-13 position.
 I am an employee of Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 I am a qualified former VA career/career-conditional employee who is CTAP eligible, a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm: I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, I am applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than my current position; AND, ? My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 I am NOT an employee of VBA and I am NOT CTAP eligible, therefore I do not meet the area of consideration for this vacancy.
2.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Program Analyst, GS-0343-13 position. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. For this position, specialized experience includes substantive experience applying disability compensation claims-processing requirements, policies, procedures, and/or business rules within the claims-processing environment. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate application of this knowledge in one or more of the following areas: 1. Claims Processing and Review: Processing, authorizing, reviewing, or performing quality review of disability compensation claims or award actions, including rating or non-rating award actions, and applying applicable claims-processing requirements, policies, procedures, and business rules. 2. Claims-Processing Systems Analysis and Support: Analyzing claims-processing system functionality or processing outcomes; researching or troubleshooting processing discrepancies; identifying potential user, procedural, data, business-rule, or system-related issues; or providing technical guidance concerning claims-processing systems or business processes. 3. Systems Development, Enhancement, or Modernization: Applying Compensation claims-processing knowledge to the development, enhancement, modernization, or maintenance of claims-processing systems, including developing or reviewing business or functional requirements, business rules, enhancement recommendations, system functionality, process improvements, automation initiatives, or implementation activities. 4. Systems Testing and Validation: Applying Compensation claims-processing knowledge when conducting or supporting testing and validation of claims-processing systems or processes, including developing or executing test scenarios or test cases, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), regression testing, validation of system changes, evaluation of expected versus actual processing outcomes, or identification and documentation of system defects or requirements-related issues.
 My resume reflects minimum of one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience does not meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above.
3.
This is a GS-13 position. VBA & CTAP EMPLOYEES: Do you have at least one (1) full year (Time-in-Grade) at the GS-12 grade level?
 Yes, I have completed one (1) full year or 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level or above. *MUST submit a non-award SF-50 illustrating Time-in-Grade requirement.
 No, I have not completed one (1) full year or 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level or above.
.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.
4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
