Position Title
Chief Immigration Judge
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12766577-25-rp Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 25, 2025 to Aug 08, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you current Federal Civil Service employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting you are a current Federal Civil Service employee.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix Immigration Court, Phoenix, AZ
 AB. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 AF. Concord Immigration Court, Concord, CA
 AG. Imperial Immigration Court, Imperial, CA
 AH. West Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 AI. N. Los Angeles Street Immigration Court, Los Angeles County, CA
 AJ. Sacramento Immigration Court, Sacramento, CA
 AK. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego, CA
 AL. San Francisco Immigration Court, San Francisco, CA
 AM. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 AN. Van Nuys Boulevard Immigration Court, Van Nuys, CA
 AO. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 AP. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford, CT
 AQ. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 AR. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 AS. Atlanta Peachtree Immigration Court, Atlanta, GA
 AT. Ted Turner Drive Immigration Court, Atlanta, GA
 AU. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 AV. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 AW. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 AX. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 AY. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 AZ. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 BA. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 BB. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 BC. Detroit Immigration Court, Detroit, MI
 B. Fort Snelling Immigration Court, Fort Snelling, MN
 C. Kansas City Immigration Court, Kansas City, MO
 D. Omaha Immigration Court, Omaha, NE
 E. Las Vegas Immigration Court, Las Vegas, NV
 F. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 G. Buffalo Immigration Court, Buffalo, NY
 H. York Broadway Immigration Court, New York, NY
 I. New York Federal Plaza Immigration Court, New York County, NY
 J. York Varick Immigration Court, New York Mills, NY
 K. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 L. Cleveland Immigration Court, Cleveland, OH
 M. Portland Immigration Court, Portland, OR
 N. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 O. Memphis Immigration Court, Memphis, TN
 P. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas, TX
 Q. El Paso Immigration Court, El Paso, TX
 R. Fort Worth Immigration Court, Fort Worth, TX
 S. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 T. Houston S. Gessner Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 U. Houston Greenspoint Park Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 V. Houston Jefferson Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 W. Laredo Immigration Court, Laredo, TX
 X. San Antonio Immigration Court, San Antonio, TX
 Y. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, Salt Lake City, UT
 Z. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 AA. Falls Church Adjudication Immigration Court, Falls Church, VA
 AC. Richmond Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 AD. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA
 AE. Seattle Immigration Court, Seattle, WA


4.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?
 Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do NOT possess this education.


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia):


3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?
 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar.


4.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA):


5.
Do you have a minimum of seven (7) years of post-bar admission legal experience?
 Yes, I have at least seven (7) years of post-bar admission legal experience as a licensed attorney preparing for, participating in, and/or appealing court or administrative agency proceedings at the Federal, State or local level. Qualifying trial experience involves cases in which a complaint was filed with a court or administrative agency, or a charging document (e.g., indictment, notice of violation, or information) was issued by a court, administrative entity, a grand jury, or appropriate military authority. Relevant administrative experience includes cases in which a formal procedure was initiated by a governmental administrative body.
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙