Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN (ROI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12856680-26-KM Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Release of information falls under the jurisdiction of Health Information Management. The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) (Release of Information (ROI)) as of December 10, 2019, in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRT (ROI) assignments in the GS-0675 series. The MRT (ROI) reviews and processes requests for patient protected health information (PHI). The MRT (ROI) also provides direct customer service to the Veteran (or third party), by providing copies of the Veteran's PHI, when a signed, written request is received, or upon the Veteran's valid authorization to a third party. The MRT (ROI) must ensure that only the information that the Veteran specified be released, is shared only with those whom the Veteran has authorized, or who have legal authority to receive such information. To perform this task, a MRT (ROI) must possess expertise in all applicable Federal laws, rules, and regulations regarding release of health information.


DEFINITIONS.
(a.) Journey Level. The full performance level for the MRT (ROI) assignment is GS-6.
(b.) Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is paid or non-paid employment directly related to the position to be filled, or in a related field such as medical support assistants, ward clerks, health record file room/scanning technicians, incomplete health record analysis, medical coding, or other positions that included knowledge of the content and use of health records. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current release of information practice.
(c.) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume, and verified through an employment reference or other independent means.
(d.) Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional MRT (ROI) is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a MRT (ROI) would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.
(e.) Predominant Specialty Area. Lead and Supervisory MRT (ROI) whose assignments involve two or more MRT specialty areas will be assigned the parenthetical title for the predominant specialty area being led/supervised.


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d) "No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to meet the requirement of this position."


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


Physical Requirements: In accordance with VA Directive 5019, it is a requirement for the Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct a pre-placement medical evaluation or examination to determine the physical, cognitive and emotional fitness of a candidate before being appointed. An examination is required in any conversion action from a status or position not requiring a physical examination to one requiring such procedures. A pre-placement examination is also required when an employee changes positions or duties that have different physical requirements or medical standards from their prior/current position.


2.
Selection the options that best describes your basic experience and/or education.
 Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT (ROI) work. (Must be documented in your resume.)
 Education. An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). (Must Provide Transcripts)
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following experience and educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses. (Experience must be document in your resume, and you must provide transcripts.) (b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. The training program may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy and physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. (Experience must be document in your resume, and you must provide a DD214 listing the military occupational school.)
 Grandfathering Provision applies to me, as I was in and never left the VHA MRT occupation as of December 10, 2019, and I may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (Must provide SF-50 dated before/on the effective date, and a current SF-50)
 I will be completing the basic education soon, I understand that I may be considered, but I will not be appointed until the education is completed and official transcript are provided.
 I do not have the basic education or experience listed above.


The following questions reference grade determination at the GS-04 MRT (ROI). Employees at this level, GS-04, serve in entry level MRT (ROI) position and receive close supervision and support from more experienced ROI staff members. MRTs (ROI) receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests per policies and regulations. They use various computer applications to track and release all authorized ROI requests. They process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors. MRTs (ROI) initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. They ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.


3.
Do you have at a minimum the basic education and/or experience required for the GS-4 grade level.

 Yes, at a minimum I have the basic education/experience for the MRT (ROI) as listed above. I understand that any experience must be documented in my resume, and I understand that any education must be documented by attaching a copy of my transcripts or DD214 for military training. I understand that it is my responsibility to identity the required courses that are directly related to MRT work, by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the provided transcripts.
 No, I do NOT have at least the minimum required experience and/or education listed above.


The following questions reference grade determination at the GS-05 MRT (ROI). Employees at this grade level, GS-05, serve in developmental positions as MRTs (ROI) and receive guidance from more experienced staff members for complex release of information procedures. They receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests according to policies and regulations. They utilize various computer applications to track and release all authorized release of information requests. They also process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors. They initiate and maintain accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. They communicate with internal and external stakeholders to provide technical expertise regarding the release of information process. They ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products utilized in MRT (ROI) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, release of information systems, etc.).
(b) Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and processes for disclosing protected health information.
(c) Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work in order to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.
(d) Knowledge of policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.
(e) Ability to communicate with individuals from various backgrounds to obtain the desired effect or gaining information by establishing rapport.

KSA must clearly be identified and listed on the resume.


4.
Select the option that best describes your education and or experience for the GS-05 MRT (ROI).
 Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and can demonstrate the GS-05 KSAs listed above (Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume).
 Successful completion of a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). Must provide transcripts
 I do not have the experience or education for the MRT (ROI) GS-5


The following questions reference grade determination at the GS-06 MRT (ROI). This is considered the journey level for MRT (ROI) positions. Employees at this level apply, interpret, and analyze laws and regulations related to the disclosure of health information. MRTs (ROI) are responsible for educating requestors on requirements for submitting requests for health information. They receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests according to policies and regulations. They use various computer applications to track and release all authorized release of information requests. MRTs (ROI) process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors. They initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. They communicate with internal and external stakeholders to provide technical expertise regarding the release of information process. They ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and 38 U.S.C. ? 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records).
(b) Ability to apply health record documentation guidelines and processes to navigate efficiently through the paper and/or electronic health record to locate, assemble, and disclose protected health information.
(c) Ability to apply policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information to process requests for release of information.
(d) Ability to research and solve difficult questions related to release of health information in an accurate and timely manner.

KSA must clearly be identified and listed on the resume.


5.
Select the option that best describes your experience for the GS-06 MRT (ROI) Journey Level.

 Experience. I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-06 listed above. (Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume).
 I do not have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level to demonstrate the KSAs listed above for the GS-06 MRT (ROI).


Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address.

Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED)

(1.) Employer's Name
(2.) Employer's City and State
(3.) Job title (Federal jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s))
(4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
(5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc.
(6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.
(7.) Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for.

We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


6.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed demonstrates the KSAs for the grade(s).
 I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRT work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions from the course number that the listed courses meet the requirements. (REQUIRED) Military training must be documented on the DD214 and a copy of the DD214 must be provided.


Important note regarding documenting eligibility. To be considered for this position as a facility or current VA employee or federal employee, you must provide your most recent SF-50 to verify eligibility. Failure to provide you most current SF-50 may result in not being referred.


7.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instruction and failure to provide the required documents will result in NOT being referred.

 I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement that apply to me. I understand that failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙