Position Title
Child and Youth Program Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0252 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


4.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


5.
I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 Yes
 No


6.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Food Service Worker. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in supporting the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) and other food programs?
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in supporting food programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in food preparation and procedures?
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have no experience in the above


5.
How many years of experience do you have in following food sanitation standards and procedures to prevent contamination (e.g., cleaning equipment that has been used for raw food before further use and using chemical sanitizers)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food sanitation.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food sanitation.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
Have you ever held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Are you SOFA sponsored?

*Proof must be submitted at the time of application such as Military orders OR Civilian Letter of Employment with your name listed and Dependent entry of approval/ Command Sponsorship if applicable.
 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙