Position Title
USPTO INTERN PROGRAM - STUDENT TRAINEE
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO - HRMS-26-12903585 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


4.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


6.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Pathways Intern program position with the U. S. Patent and Trademark Office. Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions.  Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. 

The area of considerations are individuals enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an accredited high school, qualifying career or technical educational program, or vocational school; two-year or four-year college or university; graduate or professional school; or individuals who are taking at least a half-time academic, vocational, or technical course load leading to a degree, diploma, or certificate. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet the eligibility requirement for a Pathways Student trainee? To meet eligibility, you must be a current student that has been accepted for enrollment or are enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate. You must remain enrolled and will be required to provide transcripts to be eligible for this program.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you in good academic standing with the college or university that you are enrolled in? At the time of appointment and upon request, students must demonstrate an overall Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) of 2.5 or above on a 4.0 scale as recorded on the official transcript.
 Yes
 No


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Student Trainee work at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-3 grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled.
 I have completed 2 academic years of post-high school study or an associate's degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Student Trainee work at the GS-05 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-4 grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Basic administration and clerical work; customer service; data entry and computer software programs.
 I have completed four full academic years of post-high school leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree.
 A combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Please list the name of the school that you are currently enrolled in or been accepted.


6.
Please enter the anticipated month and year of graduation from your current program.


7.

Please select which office interests you most-we'll place you where you can showcase your skills and learn from subject-matter experts.

 A. The Office of the Under Secretary (OUS)
 B. Office of the Commissioner for Patents (Patents)
 C. Office of the Commissioner for Trademarks (Trademarks)
 D. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 E. Office of the Chief Administrative Officer (OCAO)
 F. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 G. Office of Policy and International Affairs (OPIA)
 H. Office of the Chief Communications Officer (OCCO)
 I. Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB)
 J. Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB)
 K. Office of Public Engagement (OPE)
 L. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 M. Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙