Position Title
SUPERVISORY POLICE OFFICER (Field Chief of Police)
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12941942-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.

Specialized experience for the TR-14 (GS-14 equivalent) is one year of experience at the TR-12 (GS-12 equivalent) level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Experience in police administration, organization, techniques, practices, policies, functions and programs in order to implement policies and direct the management of the overall police operations for an organization; AND

-Experience coordinating special police operations which includes acting as a liaison with other law enforcement personnel, developing special operation plans for high valued asset movements, and acting on specific threats to a facility or installation; AND

-Experience ensuring compliance in day to day operations with established security criteria prescribed for interior and exterior protection programs; such as Federal, State, and local laws, internal and external rules, regulations, and directives, police manuals, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA), etc.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.

 I have one full year of specialized experience at the TR-12 (GS-12 equivalent) level.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
To ensure you receive proper credit, please describe where in your resume you have documented this experience.


3.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience to manage law enforcement/security operations and programs.
 A. I have managed uniformed police operations.
 B. I have managed/supervised investigations.
 C. I have managed facility physical security.
 D. I have managed/supervised the design and implementation of integrated physical security systems to include access control, CCTV, facility alarms and duress alarms.
 E. I have managed/supervised physical security assessments and related action taken and/or implemented.
 F. I have managed/supervised security background investigations regarding hiring and contracting personnel.
 G. I have made hiring suitability recommendations.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


4.
To ensure you receive proper credit, please describe where in your resume you have documented this experience.


5.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your responsibilities as a supervisor/ manager of a police organization.
 A. I have planned organized, and/or prioritized police assignments.
 B. I have managed the development and implementation of police operating policies and procedures.
 C. I have set law enforcement policing goals and helped my team meet those goals.
 D. I have experience supervising lower level police managers and/or supervisors.
 E. I have experience with police public relations and ensuring customer satisfaction.
 F. I have experience with managing or supervising police training.
 G. I have experience with managing or supervising police reporting.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
To ensure you receive proper credit, please describe where in your resume you have documented this experience.


7.
Choose the item that highlights your experience in developing a security policy and procedures.
 I have managed/supervised the development and implementation of a security program designed to safeguard property, personnel and assets.
 I have independently developed and implemented a security program designed to safeguard property, personnel and assets.
 I have made recommendations and assisted in developing and implementing a security program designed to safeguard property, personnel and assets.
 I have participated in processes involving development and implementation of a security program designed to safeguard property, personnel and assets.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


8.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your working knowledge of the laws, regulations, policies and procedures that govern the security of facilities and employees.
 A. Managing physical security policies and procedures of a large office building, complex or facility.
 B. Managing personnel security background checks and adjudication operations and records.
 C. Enforcing laws and regulations.
 D. Applying physical security directives.
 E. Applying personnel security directives.
 F. Managing the staffing and review of policies with agency senior officials and/or departments.
 G. Managing the staffing and review of policies and procedures with labor unions.
 H. None of the above.


9.
Select the following statement(s) that best describe your experience developing and implementing plans and goals.
 I have participated in or led the development of organizational strategic plans.
 I have ensured cohesive integration of strategic planning, budgeting and/or financial management.
 I have managed the development, analysis and preparation of data and information for the planning and execution of strategic plans.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


10.
Choose the answer that best describes your experience:
 I have supervised projects assigned to me by a supervisor.
 I have supervised law enforcement projects assigned to me by a supervisor.
 I have supervised teams responsible for projects that I developed as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised teams responsible for law enforcement projects that I developed as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have routinely supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others for assistance in performing this task.
 I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task.


11.
To ensure you receive proper credit, please describe where in your resume you have documented this experience.


12.
From the following list, select all of the supervisory duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities and considered the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 I. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor.
 J. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 K. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


13.
Please indicate which of the following best describes your experience in investigating, analyzing, and preparing reports:
 I managed investigations of crimes, accidents, and public safety incidents.
 I conducted investigations of crimes, accidents, and public safety incidents.
 I have interviewed victims of a crime, witnesses about traffic violations or office workers about theft of office equipment (or similar incidents).
 I have experience, education or training less than the levels described above.
 None of the above.


14.
To ensure you receive proper credit, please describe where in your resume you have documented this experience.


15.
Please indicate all of the following documents you have independently written.
 A. I have written police reports.
 B. I have written investigative reports.
 C. I have written intelligence reports.
 D. I have written operations plans.
 E. I have written operations orders.
 F. I have written risk assessments.
 G. I have written security surveys.
 H. I have written after action reports.
 I. I have written formal instructions for others to follow.
 J. I have written memorandums to peers or supervisors.
 K. I have written for a publication (newspaper, articles, etc.).
 L. I have written training materials.
 M. I have written performance plans and performance ratings.
 N. I have never independently written a document.


16.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in training and mentoring others in a police environment.
 A. I have trained other staff to ensure proper operation and use of systems and equipment.
 B. I have provided constructive feedback and acted as a mentor.
 C. I have helped others learn through formal or informal methods.
 D. I have identified training needs and made recommendations.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


17.
Which of the following best represents your level of experience interacting with other law enforcement personnel outside of your organization regarding job-related issues?
 I have not interacted with other law enforcement personnel outside of my organization.
 I have shared information with other law enforcement personnel.
 I have teamed with other law enforcement personnel in a cooperative effort in order to accomplish a common goal.


18.
From the following list, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work.
 A. Facilitate the resolution of competing and conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet a program objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events, arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance or instruction to support staff or professional staff regarding issues.
 D. Persuade others to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques in order to improve operations.
 E. Defend recommendations on controversial issues to senior management.
 F. Independently plan, host and conduct meetings.
 G. Diffuse confrontational contacts with people who are difficult, hostile or distressed.
 H. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙