Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12924110-26-AZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. NOTE: Make sure your documents support your response that you select. Your resume should include clear and specific descriptions of your experience as it relates to these questions. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT: Persons appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38USC 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC* or its successor.*Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC). The accrediting body for respiratory programs at colleges and universities.

Do you have the education listed above?

NOTE: a transcript must be submitted with your application.
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor..
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year Conferred:


3.
LICENSURE REQUIREMENT:  Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT*.

*RRT. Upon graduation from an accredited program, RTs are eligible to take a national examination and upon passing, the individual is granted the credential of RRT by the NBRC**.

**National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC). The credentialing body to vet and administer tests and award the credentials to become a RRT.

NOTE: Once credentialed, licensed or certified, RTs/RRTs must maintain a full, valid and unrestricted license, credential and certification to practice respiratory care.

**License Must be Uploaded with Application in order to Receive Consideration**

Do you currently possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?

 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT). (You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application)
 I'm currently employed in VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and have been determined to be covered by the Grandfathering Provision as cited in the announcement, and may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation.
 I do NOT possess a license as described in the above statements.


3a.
Please provide your license information.
Name on License:
Issuing State or Territory:
Complete License Number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration Date:


4.
Credential. Are you currently registered with the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) the credentialing as a Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT)? Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
 I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Certified Respiratory Therapists (CRT), and have completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor, and possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and I'm in the process of obtaining credentials from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) to become an Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I do NOT possess the credential(s) as described in the above.


Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, all individuals referred and assigned to this occupation must meet all the qualification requirements and knowledge, skills and abilities defined in the specific assignment as follows:

Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11.(a) Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level; and 
Hold an active license and RRT credential.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Specialized Experience includes Independently provides Pulmonary Function Testing for both inpatient and/or outpatient settings, receives Pulmonary Function consults for scheduling, give patient notice of future appointments verbally, mailed written letters and by phone, consult literature on a regular basis (e.g. AARC Times, Respiratory Care, etc.) to stay acquainted with alternative modes of therapy and keep technically up to date, calibrates and operates Pulmonary Function equipment and accessories daily, maintains in functioning condition, ensuring safety and efficient operation, troubleshoot all PFT machines and equipment interacting with vendor as needed, cleans Pulmonary Function equipment in between patient testing according to manufactory guidelines, performs diagnostic tests to include arterial blood gas analysis, spirometry, pulse oximetry, peak flow, and negative inspiratory force and COPD management, administers oxygen involving the use of variety of standard respiratory equipment to include low flow systems, perform resting and exercise oxygen saturation in PFT Lab, perform respiratory care procedures in PFT Lab such as therapeutic and diagnostic aerosol, metered dose inhalers, evaluates efficacies of therapeutic modalities, ability to perform all Pulmonary Function testing procedures, uses advanced modes of ventilation and outpatient services, such as NIP, MIP, and 6 Minute Walk testing, etc. and demonstrating the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities at the GS-9 level.
Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes. 
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.
Do you meet the required creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, and, hold an active license and RRT credential?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-11 KSAs: In addition to meeting the core competencies and experience at the next lower grade level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities at the GS-11 level?
 Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
 Yes
 No


REMINDER - you must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. 
If you are a current or former VA or Federal Employee, you must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙