Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCJD-26-12976377-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


2.
Current IRS Employee

Do you currently work on a permanent competitive service appointment with the Internal Revenue Service?

You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

You can check your competitive service status by viewing your latest Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, Block 34, Position Occupied. If eligible, you will see 1-Competitive Service in this block.*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Administrative Officer position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Administrative Officer at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the choices that describe your ability to communicate orally with a variety of customers in order to obtain and provide information. (Please select all that apply.)
 A. I have greeted visitors, relayed messages, and answered and redirected telephone calls.
 B. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information and explained non-technical procedures to others.
 C. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff or small project work group meetings, or meetings with fellow team members).
 D. I have assisted disgruntled customers and/or directed them to the appropriate source for information.
 E. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations on office administrative matters.
 F. I do not have experience performing these tasks.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to respond to customer requests for service/information, resolve customer complaints/problems, explain procedures, follow up on work performed, and ensure a high level of customer satisfaction.
 I have experience providing a full range of customer service that includes responding to complaints/problems, diagnosing and fixing problems, resolving customer complaints, providing technical information, and soliciting customer feedback.
 I have experience communicating effectively with others in a business setting that includes resolving routine operational or procedural problems, following established procedures, and training and advising others on the application of these procedures.
 I have experience communicating effectively with others in a business setting that includes following established procedures and ensuring quality customer service.
 I do not have experience performing these tasks.


4.
I have experience in writing the following: (Please select all that apply.)
 A. Informational materials
 B. Training manuals or training guidelines
 C. Standard Operating Procedures
 D. Studies
 E. Non-technical reports
 F. Performance Appraisals
 G. Memorandum or letters
 H. A variety of budgetary and financial reports
 I. I do not have experience writing any of the materials listed above.


5.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience with Procurement and Facilities Management. (Please select all that apply).
 A. I have experience preparing floor plans for office space under construction.
 B. I have experience facilitating telephone changes.
 C. I have experience determining the physical needs of an office including property and supply, communications, space, furniture, and equipment.
 D. I have experience ordering/maintaining routine office supplies.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Which of the following do you have experience in? (Please select all that apply.)
 A. I have experience initiating personnel actions (e.g. promotion, reassignment, resignation)
 B. I have experience preparing or reviewing travel documents, ensuring adherence to policies and regulations.
 C. I have experience approving contracts/agreements and procurement actions (requisitions, purchase orders).
 D. I have experience interpreting and applying regulations dealing with property management.
 E. I have experience interpreting and applying regulations dealing with records management.
 F. I have experience establishing and/or participating in the determination of the training needs of the office.
 G. I do not have experience performing the above tasks.


7.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill in using office automation equipment and software packages. (Please select all that apply.)
 A. I have experience using a word processing package such as Microsoft Word, to compose, proof, and edit correspondence.
 B. I have experience using a spreadsheet program such as Excel.
 C. I have experience using automated personnel related systems.
 D. I have experience using SharePoint.
 E. I have experience using an electronic travel planning system CONCUR.
 F. I have experience monitoring the timely preparation of performance appraisals for employees.
 G. I have experience resolving employee payroll problems.
 H. I have experience using Casemis/Techmis.
 I. I have experience with an automated time and attendance system SETR.
 J. I do not have experience with these applications.


8.
Which of the following office technology tools and task have you used? (Please select all that apply.)
 A. I have been a SharePoint Site Content Administrator.
 B. I have used Microsoft Outlook to manage email and calendar invitations.
 C. I have used Microsoft Word to create reports using editing features such as tables and columns, and I have managed document review with multiple reviews using the Track Changes feature.
 D. I have used Microsoft Excel to develop data tracking spreadsheets utilizing data features such as sorting and filtering, and I have developed finance or budget tracking spreadsheets using financial formulas and formatting.
 E. I have used Microsoft PowerPoint to create PowerPoint presentations.
 F. I do not have experience with these applications.


9.
Please select the statements below that describe your experience in performing budget working one or more phases of the budget process. (Please select all that apply.)
 A. I have coordinated budget formulation, execution, or administration.
 B. I have experience preparing a variety of budgetary and financial reports.
 C. I have experience monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds.
 D. My experience in budget work has been recognized as highly successful, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 E. I do not have experience in performing budget work as stated.


10.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in using analytical and evaluation methods to assess program efficiency, and productivity in order to resolve problems and provide solutions?
 I have experience; analyzing administrative programs; evaluating data; utilizing different methods to assess program development, efficiency and productivity, as well as recommending changes and developing solutions to complex program problems.
 I have experience analyzing information and preparing reports based on this information.
 I have experience recommending changes or solutions to problems.
 I do not have experience performing this task.


11.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙