Position Title
Radio Broadcast Technician
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
DE-13051766-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the GS-11 or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector?
Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Experience that is typically in or related to live production studio operations and live remote broadcast operations.
- Experience operating digital and analog broadcast and recording equipment systems.
- Experience with editing software and computer operations.
- Experience with various codecs and transmission devices.
- Experience with basic broadcasting theory and technical standards related to the operation of broadcast systems and equipment.
- Experience monitoring and adjusting broadcast systems to meet accepted broadcast standards.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have knowledge of file management related to digital recording, storage, and playback?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience operating digital and analog broadcast and recording equipment systems?
 Yes
 No


4.
Which of following do you have experience working with? Check all that apply.
 A. Satellite
 B. ISDN
 C. IP
 D. Digital systems
 E. I have no experience with any of these systems.


5.
Do you have experience taking corrective steps or work arounds to repair system problems?
 Yes
 No


6.
. Which best describes your experience establishing circuits from field and remote locations?
 I have not had education, training, or experience establishing circuits from field and remote locations.
 I have had education or training establishing circuits from field and remote locations.
 I have established circuits from field and remote locations. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor of senior employees to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have established circuits from field and remote locations as a regular part of my job. I have performed independently and normally without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert at establishing circuits from field and remote locations I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other worked to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.


7.
Which best describes your knowledge of audio signal flow and routing?
 I have not had education, training, or experience with audio signal flow and routing.
 I have had education or training with audio signal flow and routing.
 I have experience and knowledge of audio signal flow and routing.
 I have experience with audio signal flow and routing as a regular part of my job independently and normally without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have experience with audio signal flow and routing. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other worked to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.


8.
I have monitored and controlled via remote control transmitters.
 True
 False


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙