Position Title
Sales Division Chief
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12885417-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized experience for the GS-15 is one year of experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties
of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

Experience in managing competencies at the senior level management level in large scale consumer logistics and customer service functions in a consumer retail environment.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
Please specify where the specialized experience documented above can be found in your resume (employer's name and your job title).


3.
Choose the statements that describe your experience with customer service support contracts and/or customer-service/order management systems implementations.
 A. I have performed acquisition planning for multimillion dollar customer service support contracts and/or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 B. I have performed requirements gathering for multimillion dollar customer service support contracts and/or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 C. I have developed performance work statements for multimillion dollar customer service support contracts and/or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 D. I have lead proposal evaluation teams for multimillion dollar customer service support contracts and/or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 E. I have been the COTR for multimillion dollar customer service support contracts and/or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


4.
Choose the statements that describe your experience with warehousing (fulfillment, inventory, etc.) support contracts.
 A. I have performed acquisition planning for multimillion dollar warehousing service support contracts.
 B. I have performed requirements gathering for multimillion dollar warehousing service support contracts.
 C. I have developed performance work statements for multimillion dollar warehousing service support contracts.
 D. I have lead proposal evaluation teams for multimillion dollar warehousing service support contracts
 E. I have been the COTR for multimillion dollar warehousing service support contracts.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


5.
Choose the statements that describe your experience managing relationship with high value/key account representatives.
 A. I have been responsible for building and maintaining long-term relationships with valuable clients.
 B. I have acted as a strategic partner and advisor, helping customers with orders and solving problems.
 C. I have worked closely with various business departments to identify opportunities, develop strategic plans and negotiate contracts.
 D. I have created reports to share with key stakeholders and customer progress.
 E. I have led an accounts team and collaborated effectively across functional areas to resolve problems.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Choose the statements that describe your experience in project management.
 A. I have developed and monitored project milestones for program and contracting purposes.
 B. I have managed the development of project requirements, including business and technical requirements for customer service systems development.
 C. I have managed projects through their entire lifecycle including initiation, planning, execution and closeout.
 D. I have regularly used project management software for the preparation of timelines, Gant charts and reporting.
 E. I have been responsible for developing project budgets and monitoring project expenditures for accuracy and appropriateness.
 F. I have successfully completed project management training courses.
 G. I have successfully completed a series of project management training courses and obtained a project management certification.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Indicate your experience gathering and evaluating customer service performance data to make recommendations that have resulted in improved customer satisfaction metrics.
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluation practices, theories, methods, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues (e.g. financial controls, office budgets, customer service operations improvements, etc.)
 B. I have tracked and monitored completion of office assignments and prepared reports that evaluate results and document any trends.
 C. I have obtained accurate and sufficient information in response to industry or public inquiries and recommended responses based on evaluation of the information.
 D. I have conducted analysis, reviews and studies of operational and customer service programs and processes in order to provide recommended solutions and improvements for the efficiency and effectiveness of the program.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


8.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience in preparing written materials such as business requirements documents, process models, business cases, statements of work, etc.
 I have prepared written documents, such as transmittal memos and e-mail, which cover routine issues and recipients are usually within my Division.
 I have been a participant in preparing business requirement documents, statements of work, and briefing papers, which cover routine issues, with some complex elements, and recipients are usually within my organization.
 I have prepared business requirement documents, functional statements, business cases, statements of work, briefing papers, and correspondence (and other materials) which cover complex issues, and recipients are individuals and organizations outside my own organization, including customers and middle or senior management within or outside of the organization.
 I have prepared a wide variety of written materials involving issues or projects of a sensitive and controversial nature and recipients are a wide range of individuals and groups both within and outside my organization.
 None of the above.


9.
Please specify where the experience claimed in the previous questions is documented in your resume (employer's name and your job title).


10.
Choose the statements that describe your experience with Executive communication.
 A. Used communications tools to promote a more effective working environment and to boost employee morale.
 B. Led efforts to improve internal communications, improve relationships between divisions and boost morale.
 C. Worked on teams to promote more effective internal communications and boost morale.
 D. Developed internal communications programs to improve the flow of information between divisions and boost morale.
 E. Have not performed any of the above.


11.
This position requires the ability to effectively inform and influence Senior Leaders and other agency officials. Choose all the statement(s) that describe the services you have provided.
 A. Made recommendations to senior level personnel on the best course of action based upon the review and analysis of documents, including the provision of summaries for such documents.
 B. Participated in meetings with senior agency officials at the Director/Deputy Director level preparing policy analyses, background information, fact sheets and other material concerning substantive technical issues.
 C. Verbally responded to inquiries or requests for information on topics regarding analyses I provided.
 D. Verbally explained information on topics regarding my analyses to a variety of audiences.
 E. None of the above.


12.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


13.
From the following list, select all of the formal managerial, supervisory, or team lead duties you have performed as part of your official responsibilities in a position.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have participated in succession planning.
 C. I have been responsible for first line supervision or team lead to employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor.
 I. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 J. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


14.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


15.
Select the following statements that describe your experience with budget preparation and contracts.
 A. I have prepared budget proposals for my programs.
 B. I have monitored program budget and made revisions based on priorities.
 C. I have served as primary Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent management of contractors and invoicing.
 D. I have written performance-based contract requirements.
 E. I have served as subject matter expert in the acquisition of vendors for contracted work
 F. None of the above.


16.
Select the statements that describe your experience developing and executing strategies and annual action plans to lead your work unit (Division, team, etc.) to successfully achieve stated goals and objectives.
 A. I have established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. I have established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. I have closed out projects.
 D. I have started up and managed projects through completion.
 E. I have established and monitor project progress.
 F. I have met deadlines.
 G. I have made resource decisions for competing projects.
 H. I have anticipated and resolved problems.
 I. None of the above.


17.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙