Position Title
ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERL-26-12925012-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees Applying on Time-Limited Assignments
    
This job opportunity announcement is open to current, permanent Army employees that would occupy the position under a time-limited promotion, reassignment or change to lower grade not to exceed (NTE). You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.
    
•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").
    
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.
    
Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.
    
Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee Applying on Time-Limited Assignments?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7
8


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to complete the required initial training to obtain and maintain a Government Purchase Card (GPC) within 12 months of being appointed. Are you willing to obtain a Governetn Purchase card?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Technician position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing a variety of administration duties to include assisting with preparation of field office correspondence and contract documents; performing field duties to include processing contractor progress payment requests and submittals; and using programs to review and edit contract documents.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing a variety of administration duties to include assisting with preparation of field office correspondence and contract documents; performing field duties to include processing contractor progress payment requests and submittals; and using programs to review and edit contract documents; maintaining electronic construction contract document files; using the automated systems to perform contract administration and financial management functions in full coordination with support offices and project engineers
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Techncian at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes processing monthly and final contract payment estimates, reporting progress of overall construction, processing construction submittals, processing modifications, and providing administrative, GPC, and logistical support to the Project, Resident, or Area Office; managing the office Government Purchase Card (GPC) for supplies and services and coordinates purchase actions with Contracting Division; performing internal audits on property, GOVs, and GPC including coordination with District/Division Logistics Office and budget analyst
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙