Position Title
Compliance Specialist
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-DO-26-DE-13030065-CMA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Sacramento, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Boise, ID
 D. Billings, MT
 E. Boulder City, NV
 F. Salt Lake City, UT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


4.
Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.).


5.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


1.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


2.
I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, GS-09: From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Compliance Specialist, GS-1101-09 position. Please read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent private sector experience. Specialized experience is defined as experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. This experience includes but is not limited to activities such as: Assisting with the review and interpretation/application of laws, regulations, and policies related to land, water, or resource management, including acreage limitation and water delivery eligibility programs; examples include determining eligibility and assessing compliance with the Reclamation Reform Act or comparable regulatory frameworks; Coordinating with stakeholders (such as landowners, water districts, tribal governments, or regulatory agencies) to clarify requirements, resolve routine compliance issues, and support program implementation under established guidance; Providing support in the preparation and submission of compliance-related forms and reports required under the Reclamation Reform Act or comparable regulatory frameworks.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above, however I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I possess a combination of graduate education and specialized experience as described above. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 18 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not possess the experience or education as described above.


2.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, GS-11: From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Compliance Specialist, GS-1101-11 position. Please read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent private sector experience. Specialized experience is defined as is experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. This experience includes but is not limited to activities such as: Independently reviewing and interpreting laws, regulations, and policies related to acreage limitation and land or water resource management, such as the Reclamation Reform Act, and providing authoritative guidance to resolve complex or controversial compliance issues; Applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques in implementing policy and program requirements, such as determining eligibility, assessing compliance, calculating fees or rates, and preparing, presenting, and submitting compliance-related forms and reports required under the Reclamation Reform Act or similar regulatory frameworks; Leading or assisting with the development of adaptation of program guidance and procedures to address changing legal, administrative, or operational conditions, including recommending improvements and implementing new processes; Coordinating and engaging with stakeholders (such as landowners, water districts, tribal governments, or regulatory agencies) to resolve compliance issues, present findings, and support program implementation at a higher level of complexity and independence; Prepare and submit compliance-related forms and reports required under the Reclamation Reform Act or comparable regulatory frameworks.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above, however I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related.
 I possess a combination of graduate education and specialized experience as described above. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 36 semester hours, and divide by 36 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not possess the experience or education as described above.


3.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙