Position Title
Law Clerk (Honors)
Agency
Federal Housing Finance Agency
Announcement Number
OGC-26-02 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a US citizen? If so, you can apply under this eligibility, without having worked for the Federal Government before.  Veteran's preference applies.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for expressing interest in the Law Clerk (Honors) position located in the Office of General Counsel (OGC) at the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). This section will be used to determine if you meet the requirements to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position.


1.
Minimum Qualifications: Education
 I qualify for the EL/GS-11 position because I completed my first or second professional law degree (J.D. or LL.M.) or will complete my JD by June of 2026.
 I do not meet the education requirements.


2.
Pending Bar application/admission

*This is not the correct announcement if you have already been admitted to the BAR*
 I am pending bar application/admission.
 I do not meet this requirement because I have been admitted to the BAR.


3.
Qualifying Experience
 I qualify for the EL/GS-11 position because my experience demonstrates at least two of the following criteria: (1) A record of high academic achievement during law school (e.g., graduated with academic honors, ranked within the top 25% of class, Dean's list, Order of the Coif, or similar academic achievement). (2) Legal research and writing experience separate from academic requirements (e.g., serving on a law journal, serving as a research assistant, participation in a writing competition, or similar experience). (3) Moot court or mock trial experience. (4) Experience with public interest law (e.g., legal internship or externship with a non-profit organization, legal clinic work, or similar experience). (5) Legal internship, externship, or clerkship in local, state, or federal government.
 I do not meet the experience requirement.


4.
Certification of Application: I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. If my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will rate my application based on the level of competency demonstrated in my resume. (If you select "No" to this question, you will be removed from consideration)
 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙