Position Title
Antiterrorism Officer
Agency
U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
Announcement Number
MCGP-26-13042964-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


COE's
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 15% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 15% of the time?
 Yes
 No


4.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with AR 690-11, this position has been designated as "Emergency-Essential". Emergency-Essential designation takes precedence over any transportation agreement or military recall status. In the event of a crisis situation or wartime, the incumbent must continue to perform the duties and requirements of the position to ensure the success of combat operations or to support combat essential systems subsequent to mobilization or an evacuation order. Additional training, medical requirements, and deployment responsibilities may apply to this position. Can you be exempted from military recall status and are you willing to comply with other Emergency-Essential requirements to obtain and maintain this position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Antiterrorism Officer position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Antiterrorism Officer at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the federal service which includes: 1) Compiling vulnerability data to support long-term security planning 2) Assisting with emergency preparedness exercises 3) Coordinating the daily operations of an organizational force protection program and 4) Reviewing operational documents to ensure security compliance.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as criminal justice, cybersecurity, psychology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙