Position Title
CYP Operational Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12764747 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 11, 2025 to Jul 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a CYP Operations Clerk. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent AND 2 years of administrative experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in performing administrative work assignments and using typical office software applications (e.g., typing, producing reports, and operating Microsoft Office Suite programs)?
 I have 2+ years of experience in performing administrative assignments and using office software, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in performing administrative assignments and using office software, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in performing administrative assignments and using office software, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in performing administrative assignments and using office software, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in performing administrative assignments and using office software.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in using the Child and Youth Management System (CYMS), or other equivalent database system, and in maintaining a computerized database?
 I have 2+ years of experience in systems knowledge and record maintenance, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in systems knowledge and record maintenance, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in systems knowledge and record maintenance, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in systems knowledge and record maintenance, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in systems knowledge and record maintenance.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing, as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
Have you ever held an Operations Clerk or Support Team position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held an Operations Clerk or Support Team position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held an Operations Clerk or Support Team position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙