Position Title
General Attorney (TR) (Litigation)
Agency
Federal Trade Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12796752-25-OGC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2025 to Sep 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBLITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY: Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the positions(s) under this announcement. NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you: 

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more? 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.  You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


3.
(1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who has been issued orders for a permanent change of station (PCS)?  If yes, confirm you are indicated on the PCS orders; and that you:

• have been married to the military member on or prior to the date of your spouse's PCS orders;
• are relocating with your spouse to the new duty location; AND,
• have not previously been appointed using this authority under these orders. 

-OR- 

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 

-OR- 

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit a copy of the PCS orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders. 

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND 
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND 
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.  

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?  

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-14/15 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education requirements for the General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-14/15 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I have successfully completed graduate studies of 2 years or more in an accredited college or university leading professional law degree (LL.B or JD) and two years professional legal experience which reflects superior law student work or activities.
 I have successfully completed a second professional law degree (LL.M) which requires one full year of graduate study and two years of professional legal experience.
 My education does not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Basic requirements for the General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-14/15 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I have a membership in a State Bar, Puerto Rico, or District of Columbia plus one year of professional legal experience.
 I do not meet any of the educational/experience combinations under any of the above choices.


3.
Please indicate your State Bar membership number and the date you were admitted to the Bar. Please provide your Bar number.



4.
Please identify the state in which you have been admitted to the bar and where you have jurisdiction to practice law.



5.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-14 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify because I am an active member of the bar in good standing and I have 42 months of legal experience after graduation from law school.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


6.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the additional qualification requirements for a General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-14 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-14 level because I have 18 months of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: independently planning, organizing, and conducting analysis of the matters on which they are working, based on preliminary background and policy information. Written work is expected to be technically correct and not require detailed review. At this level, attorneys are journeymen attorneys whose work entails demanding legal research and analysis; drafting and reviewing draft motions, subpoenas, complaints, orders, rule proposals, and memoranda; and, where appropriate to the office, participating in investigational hearings, negotiating sessions, trials; contributing to the tactical and policy decisions inherent in various matters and, where appropriate, they should be able to assist in the trial of these matters. Attorneys at this level take charge of basic matters, moderately complex and novel matters, and make substantial contributions to the most complex, novel, or significant matters.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


7.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-15 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify because I am an active member of the bar in good standing and I have 60 months of legal experience after graduation from law school.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


8.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the additional qualification requirements for a General Attorney (Litigation), GS-0905-15 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify for this position at the GS-15 level because I have 18 months of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: being an outstanding writer and highly effective oral advocate, exercising sound judgement, supervising, working well with, and motivating others, and making decided contributions to the work of the office, functioning independently and work should not require close supervision or substantive review, and representing an organization before any group or in any setting, and effectively managing the preparation and trial of virtually any major case, all stages in the appeal of such a case, or conducting evaluation and analysis of the most complex cases of major significance for which little if any precedent exists.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙