Position Title
ATTORNEY-ADVISER (INTERNATIONAL)
Agency
Joint Activities
Announcement Number
CHAT-26-1209972-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Attorney-Advisor (International) position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide in this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement below that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Attorney-Advisor (International) at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) AND have a professional law degree (LLB or JD).
 I do not possess the education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you a member in good standing of the bar of a State or Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have three or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position? Note: Graduation from an ABA-Accredited Law School in the top 25% of the class or an advanced law degree such as an LLM may substitute for one year of the required professional legal experience.
 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙