Position Title
Waiter/Waitress
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
MYPT26-13024132 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires that you be 18 years of age or older to serve alcoholic beverages. Do you meet this minimum age requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualitied for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and/or supporting documents if required.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a Serve Safe Alcohol certification and a Health Card as a condition of employment.

Are you willing and able to meet this requirement upon being hired?
 Yes
 No


2.
Describe your experience and knowledge of proper serving, food handling and sanitation techniques.
 I have no experience as described above.
 I have less than six (6) months of experience as described above.
 I have between six (6) months, and one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have more than one (1) year of experience as described above.


3.
Please described your experience with cash handling, credit card processing, and operating a casher register and/or point of sales system.
 I do not have any experience with above.
 I have less than 6 months of experience performing these duties.
 I have between 6 months and 1 year of experience performing these duties.
 I have between 1 and 2 years of experience performing these duties.
 I have 2 or more years of experience performing these duties.


4.
Please describe your experience presenting menus, suggesting food and beverage selections, taking accurate orders, and serving food and drinks to patrons in a commercial, military, or hospitality dining facility?
 I have no experience performing these duties.
 I have less than 6 months of experience performing these duties.
 I have between 6 months and 1 year of experience performing these duties.
 I have between 1 and 2 years of experience performing these duties.
 I have 2 or more years of experience performing these duties.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙