Position Title
Child Development Center Director (Small)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12864284 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 12, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience to qualify for the Child Development Center Director (Small Medium) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you?
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in Early Childhood Education, Child Development Elementary Education, Special Education (concentration in ECE), Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), Child Care Administration or related field of study and three years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have an unrelated degree, but I have a combination of education and experience; education must include courses in a child-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours. In addition, I have three years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have combination of education and experience; education include courses in a child-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours. In addition, I have three years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth is.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a master's degree or higher in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a bachelor’s degree in early childhood education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have an unrelated degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management.?

 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4 years described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 4+ years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside the Department of War (DOW).
 I have 1 to 4 years’ experience, at the director level outside the Department of War (DOW).
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial, budget, and purchasing practices as it pertains to child and youth programs?
 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4years described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 4+ years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside the DoW.
 I have 1-4 years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside the DoW.
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years’ experience, as described above.
 I have 5-10 years’ experience, as described above.
 I have 1-5 years’ experience, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
What size is the DOW CDC program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large DoW CDC program (200+ children).
 I have experience managing a medium DoW CDC program (101 to 199 children).
 I have experience managing a small DoW CDC program (up to 100 children).
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙