Position Title
Supv Systems & Procedures Analyst
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Finance
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12927588-26-LW Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-11 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-12 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


1.
Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 level or higher or I am a GS-11.
 This restriction does not apply to me because I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or I am seeking a non-competitive appointment such as Schedule A, or 30% or more disabled veteran appointment.
 This restriction applies to me, and I do not meet the requirements.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: This section includes questions about the specialized experience for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the specialized experience for a Supervisory Systems & Procedures Analyst, GS-0501-12. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Read all responses before making your selection.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
For GS-12: Do you possess one year specialized experience to at least the GS-11 level? The Specialized Experience for this position is:
Vast experience administering payroll systems designed to track, reconcile, and report on agency operation and maintenance funding and/or appropriations, allotment restrictions, accounts, and financial reports for operating officials and management.
Monitor and report on the status and progress of work.
Prepare reports and maintain records of work accomplishments and administrative information.
Accurately compile and summarize narrative information related data in accordance with prescribed procedures and regulations where available.
Supervisory or Lead experience to provide direction, structure and resources to achieve mission and act as focal point for staff advice and coordination on all matters pertaining to Operations and Maintenance of a nationwide payroll program to include expert in analyzing and resolving complex issues related to various aspects of the payroll system?
 Yes
 No


The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Merit Promotion Documentation Reminder - If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


Veteran's Preference Documentation Reminder - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Assessment 2
Select the best answer for each question based on your job knowledge and experience. Provide an answer to every question




1.
As a GS-12 Supervisory Systems & Procedures Analyst, you are expected to provide "broad advisory and decision-making authority" to staff and provide briefing to senior leadership.

Which scenarios best demonstrate your experience for full performance with this position in leading or supervising?
 A. Experience in leading, planning, and scheduling program work in a manner that promoted smooth flow and even distribution of assigned work requirements.
 B. Experience in work preparations, setting priorities, establishing performance standards, and counseling employees on both work and administrative matters.
 C. Experience in ensuring financial transactions comply with VA policies
 D. Experience in compiling financial reports for quarterly leadership meetings
 E. Responsible for coordination with and is POC for all payroll audits and inspections
 F. Planning organizational structure and staffing needs.
 G. Ensuring an efficient, effective and economical structure is established that will provide career and promotional opportunities and skills.
 H. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, sets and adjusts priorities, and prepares schedules for completion of work.
 I. I do not have experience


2.
Select all statements that best describe your experience for this position?
 A. Plans, organizes, and directs the payroll support operations for a large financial organization.
 B. Collaborates with authorized personnel of other units to negotiate, decide on, schedule, or coordinate supporting service.
 C. Serves as the agency payroll support expert analyzing and resolving complex issues related to the payroll aspects of agency-wide programs
 D. Provides expert advice and guidance to the Agency on the delivery of Payroll Support services to Agency entities and individuals.
 E. I do not have experience


3.
Which statement best describes your experience in analyzing and problem solving?
 Interprets reports and other payroll data for program review and analysis.
 Identifies deviations from management plans, identifies trends which may have adverse financial effects, makes current and long-term projections, and analyzes costs of programs to assist in decision making.
 I do not have the exerience listed above


4.
Please select all statements that have experience to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, clearly, concisely, and with technical accuracy.

I have or currently do the following:
 A. Represent the Agency at management meetings and conferences and in the development of policies, standards and procedures for payroll operations and policy, program management, and administrative planning related to payroll programs.
 B. Make timely and accurate recommendations for balancing and expediting individual programs within the context of overall mission execution
 C. Analyze and interpret the status of the resources required and is available for the various projects for the purpose of providing advice to the Agency’s Director, which may significantly impact program milestone accomplishment. (1)
 D. Review proposed and new legislation, regulations, policies, and provide recommendations for necessary system standards, controls, requirements, and change requests for effective systemic implementation.
 E. Provide technical expertise to management and reviews financial management issues that are characterized by diverse and innovative approaches and coordinated and uncoordinated efforts.
 F. I do not have experience


5.
Please select all that you have experience with:

I currently am or have experience in
 A. Establishing policies, planning, and prioritization and conducts efficient and economical use of the facilities, supplies, equipment, manpower, and funding resources necessary to accomplish the Agency’s payroll mission.
 B. Continually evaluate the effective utilization of payroll related resources, and redirects efforts by revising priorities, changing emphasis, and transferring resources between initiatives as necessary to ensure efficient and economical management.
 C. Establishing controls over program schedules and resource requirements to ensure their synchronization across Payroll Support programs to include related external activities.
 D. Exercising independent judgment in planning, organizing, and directing the technical aspects of assigned programs within these constraints.
 E. I do not have the experience listed above


6.
Please select all have experience in performing with Financial Systems:

I currently or have performed the following:
 A. Perform budget support work for internal operating programs in support of one or more of the phases or systems involved in budget administration including the formulation, presentation or execution of a budget.
 B. Perform analysis on existing systems and the agency system processes to support the systems development life cycle.
 C. Provide information on systems requirements and development solutions.
 D. I do not have the experience listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙