Position Title
2ND ASST ENGINEER DIESEL TOWBOAT
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13022217-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


3.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a 2nd Assistant Engineer, Diesel Towboat position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before submitting your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform 2nd Asst Engineer Diesel Towboat, XH-08 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties such as supervising a shift watch of two or more employees and monitoring continuous operation of engine room machinery, including: propelling engines, generators, relays, starters, air compressors, fuel pumps, water filter pumps, fire pumps, propeller and rudder mechanisms, refrigeration plant, boiler for house facilities, and 77 HVAC coil units. I am skilled in diagnosing problems and malfunctions, utilizing knowledge of equipment assembly, use of engine-room tools, measurement and testing; supervising and participating in the maintenance, repair, replacement, and modification of such machinery, engines, and systems requirements ranging from those of a minor nature to those of a major nature. I also apply knowledge of the fuel and water treatments associated with various equipment and systems. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of monitoring continuous operation of engine-room machinery including: propelling engines, generators, relays, starters, air compressors, fuel pumps, water filter pumps, fire pumps, propeller and rudder mechanisms, refrigeration plant, boiler for house facilities, and 77 HVAC coil units. I am skilled in applying the knowledge of how such equipment and systems operate individually or in combination, and in the ability to assist in repair, replacement, maintenance, and modification requirements ranging from those of a minor nature to those of a major nature. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform the common duties such as assisting in the repair, replacement, maintenance, and modification of engine-room machinery, including ONE or MORE of the following: propelling engines, generators, relays, starters, air compressors, fuel pumps, water filter pumps, fire pumps, propeller and rudder mechanisms, refrigeration plant, boiler for house facilities, and 77 HVAC coils. I can interpret and apply working drawings, sketches, diagrams, blueprints, and other information reflected in technical manuals needed to complete work; identify and use correct measuring instruments and tools; assemble and install equipment as needed. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks such as using a variety of electric and hand tools common to engine-room machinery.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documents and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to this questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙