Position Title
Short Order Cook
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13025010 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience in performing a variety of tasks such as grilling, frying, baking and preparing a variety of foods to include, ensuring regulating temperature and removing when done, without more than normal supervision?
 Yes
 No


2.
Simple arithmetic and the ability to read instructions is required for this position. Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


3.
Please explain your knowledge of kitchen equipment and the upkeep of it.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


4.
Working as a cook requires keeping things sanitary, please explain your knowledge of sanitation procedures.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


5.
This position requires availability to work nights, weekends, and holidays. All American provides breakfast, lunch and dinner 7-days a week, Monday - Sunday. The restaurant opens as early as 6:00 am and closes 7:30 pm. Please indicate your availability to work.
 Available all hours and each day without restrictions
 Not available to work mornings
 Not available to work evenings
 Only available on weekends
 Only available on weekdays


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙