Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
393-26-JML-13007199-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of Atlanta Regional Benefit Office and/or Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee Atlanta Regional Benefit Office or are CTAP eligible as described above?
 Yes, I am a current permanent Atlanta Regional Benefit Office employee and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my status.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not match the criteria above.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position. In addition to the Time-In-Grade requirements (if applicable), applicants must ALSO meet the minimum qualification requirements in order to be referred to management. Your qualifications must be clearly documented AND supported in your application materials. Select the appropriate response to the following, based upon your current experience, that documents your ability to perform the duties of this position.


2.
Time in Grade: Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response.)

 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level, or higher.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements of occupying a GS-11 grade level or higher for at least 52 weeks (1 year), by the closing date of this announcement.


3.
Specialized Experience: From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best reflects your level of experience. Note: Your response MUST be clearly supported in your submitted application materials. Do you have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position (see Specialized Experience in the vacancy announcement, also.) AND that was equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level, in Federal service? Specialized experience must demonstrate comprehensive, succinct and  impeccable organizational skills in order to analyze and distribute email correspondence to large audiences; track and analyze data and statistical information to identify problems, trends and to advise management of anticipated customer needs; preparing graphs, charts, and other audio-visual displays; and experience performing tasks, with minimal oversight, involving budget execution and financial management tracking. Must also demonstrate comprehensive communication skills to present and articulate findings to upper-level management, make clear and convincing oral presentations, assess customer needs and independently track funds distribution, and reconcile commitments/obligations.
 Yes, I have one full year of GS-11 grade level experience as indicated in the announcement.
 I do not have the specialized experience.


4.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment. Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.

 I certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙