Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (R&P/COMPENSATION)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12921177-AF-26-5096 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question(s):


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09 EXPERIENCE:

To qualify for the GS-0201-09 level, you must have at least 12 months of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level which provided a working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and federal civilian or military personnel programs. Applicants must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experienced in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers. Competent in merit principles, programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities. Skilled in applying program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals. If substituting experience with education, to qualify at the GS-09 level, applicant must have master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-11 EXPERIENCE:

To qualify for the GS-0201-11 level, you must have at least 12 months of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level which provided a working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and federal civilian or military personnel programs. Applicants must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experienced in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers. Competent in merit principles, personnel plans, programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities. Skilled in applying program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals. If substituting experience with education, to qualify at the GS-09 level, applicant must have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙