Position Title
UNIT PROGRAM COORDINATOR-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-030302-13000306-JDH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a UNIT PROGRAM COORDINATOR, NK-0303-02. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the letter that BEST describes HIGHEST level of experience, education or combination you have that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Unit Program Coordinator, NK-0303-2. NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT. If you are using education to qualify, you MUST submit copies of your transcripts with your application.
 I have at least 1 year (52 weeks) of general experience equivalent to the next lower grade (NK-1 or GS-04) in Federal service or equivalent in other pay systems. General experience includes administrative support programs to include but not limited to task management, cyber-security liaison (CL), Government Travel Card (GTC) program, Defense Travel System (DTS) administrator, drug demand reduction program, health care program, fitness program, Government Purchase Card (GPC) program, safety program, Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) accounts, security program, supply program, civilian time card program and unit recognition program. Also serves as liaison with personnel flights on personnel issues and assists in oversight of organization manpower resource requirements.
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. NOTE: You must submit a copy of transcripts.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed post high school education and experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 My experience and education are not described in the above statements.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙