Position Title
Welder
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12948606-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Welder position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of  experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Welder duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex welding and repair services such as fabricate, cut, assemble, modify, and/or repair various metals to include aluminum. I am skilled in applying trade methods and a variety of manual welding processes, e.g., electric, acetylene, and inert gas shielding to fabricate, cut, assemble, modify and/or repair various metal and alloy parts typically part of vessels, structures or lock and dam facility operating equipment and in leading and directing groups in accomplishing trades and craft work involving welding and equipment repair and mechanic work. I am considered an expert and work with high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of welding and repair services such as: fabricate, cut, assemble, modify, and/or repair various metals. I am skilled in applying a variety of manual welding processes to make more difficult welds, which may include welds in hard to reach places that must meet close tolerance, strength, and other requirements and is typically part of vessels, structures or lock and dam facility operating equipment. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 i have the ability to perform common welding and repair services such as fabricate, cut, assemble, modify, and/or repair various metals. I can plan and lay out work from blueprints, sketches, drawings, specifications and work orders or verbal instructions, and select material for fabrication or repair. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple welding and repair services such as such as brazing, soldering and/or flame-cutting with rough tolerances to complete assigned work or I have received training on performing simple welding repairs.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙