Position Title
Sales Clerk (Pool/Beach)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12846641 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Sales Clerk (Pool/Beach) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
This position is subject to the possibility of workdays on weekends and holidays and evenings, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours and if seasonal lasting up to 4 months. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, including on an emergency basis.

 Yes I am available to work all the above requirements
 Yes I am available to work some of the above requirements
 No I am not available to work any of the above requirements


2.
As a condition of employment the employee must obtain a CPR and First Aid within 30 days of employment
 Yes I am able to obtain a CPR and First Aid within 30 days of employment
 No I am not able to obtain a CPR and First Aid within 30 days of employment


3.
How many years of documented experience compute charges, disperse change accurately, and prepare reports have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a DoD setting
 Two plus years at a civilian sector
 One to Two years in any setting
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience


4.
How many years of customer service have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a DoD setting
 Two plus years at a civilian sector
 One to Two years in any setting
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙