Position Title
Equal Opportunity Investigator
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
DE-13016365-26-FRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.


3.
Are you a current employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced (CFR 330.702) from a position in the competitive service from a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent;
it has been less than a year from your separation from Federal Service (see ICTAP eligibility period CFR 330.708.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Mobile, AL
 AD. Phoenix, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Fresno, CA
 AG. Los Angeles, CA
 AH. Oakland, CA
 AI. San Diego, CA
 AJ. San Francisco, CA
 AK. San Jose, CA
 AL. Denver, CO
 AM. Washington, DC
 AN. Miami, FL
 AO. Tampa, FL
 AP. Atlanta, GA
 AQ. Savannah, GA
 AR. Honolulu, HI
 AS. Chicago, IL
 AT. Indianapolis, IN
 AU. Kansas City, KS
 AV. Louisville, KY
 AW. New Orleans, LA
 AX. Baltimore, MD
 AY. Boston, MA
 AZ. Detroit, MI
 BA. Minneapolis, MN
 B. Jackson, MS
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Newark, NJ
 F. Albuquerque, NM
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. New York, NY
 I. Charlotte, NC
 J. Greensboro, NC
 K. Raleigh, NC
 L. Cincinnati, OH
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Oklahoma City, OK
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Pittsburgh, PA
 Q. San Juan, PR
 R. Greenville, SC
 S. Memphis, TN
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Dallas, TX
 V. El Paso, TX
 W. Houston, TX
 X. San Antonio, TX
 Y. Norfolk, VA
 Z. Richmond, VA
 AA. Seattle, WA
 AC. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).




 Yes
 No


5.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?


 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-7 Minimum Qualifications: Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have successfully completed at least one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a degree program related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education that together meet the requirements for this position.
 Superior Academic Achievement - I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution, and I meet one of the following criteria: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described.


2.
GS-9 Minimum Qualifications: Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have successfully completed at least two full years of graduate level education (36 semester hours, 54 quarter hours or equivalent) OR master's degree OR LL.B. OR J.D. in a field of study directly related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙