Position Title
Printing Plant Worker
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12846924-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of experience you possess to perform the duties of a Printing Plant Worker, KG-6941-3, without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Printing Plant Worker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work with a high level of independence, seeking supervisory guidance only for unique situations.
 I have ability to perform the full range of Printing Plant Worker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work with minimal supervision, referring unique situations to a lead or supervisor.
 I have ability to perform common Printing Plant Worker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work under general supervision.
 I have the ability to perform simple Printing Plant Worker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work under close supervision.
 I do not have the ability to perform any Printing Plant Worker duties.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in performing tasks related to organization and production in a facility:
 1. I can follow established guidelines and protocols to ensure a clean/safe work area, monitor that established guidelines related to production are being followed, and independently monitor inventory to keep manufacturing sections fully stocked with all required items for use during production.
 2. I can follow established guidelines and protocols to ensure a clean/safe work area, follow established guidelines related to production, and monitor inventory to keep manufacturing sections fully stocked with all required items for use during production with minimal supervision.
 3. I can follow established guidelines and protocols to ensure a clean/safe work area, follow established guidelines related to production and organization, and keep manufacturing inventory sections fully stocked with all required items for use during production under general supervision.
 4. I can follow established guidelines and protocols to ensure a clean/safe work area and follow basic instructions to keep manufacturing sections fully stocked with all required items for use during production under direct supervision.
 5. I can complete none of the above tasks in relation to organization and production support.


3.
Which of the following best describes your ability to move and arrange products and inventory?
 I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job, and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have also trained others in the performance of this task.
 I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of a job, under minimal supervision, by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a part of a team environment under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to monitor for compliance with correct procedures.
 I do not have the ability to move and arrange supplies and equipment either independently or with supervision.


4.
Choose the statement that best reflects your ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships in a team setting.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to help achieve a project or program goal, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, engaged others in sharing information to identify potential issues and proposed possible solutions, and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to help achieve a project or program goal, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others on a team to perform routine duties.
 None of the above.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to interpret and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives to complete job-related tasks or assignments.
 I am able to read, interpret, and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives for complex and/or intricate tasks or assignments.
 I am able to read, interpret, and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives for routine and/or simple tasks or assignments.
 I am able to read, interpret, and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives with support in a team-based environment.
 I am able to interpret and follow simple directions as presented/modeled by a supervisor under close supervision.
 None of the above.


6.
Choose the statement that best reflects the delivery methods you have used to follow and interpret material containing instructions, specifications, or directives.
 I have followed and interpreted instructions or directions contained in Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)’s, manuals, training guides, online instructions, and training videos.
 I have followed and interpreted instructions or directions contained in training guides, online instructions, and training videos.
 I have followed and interpreted directions contained in training guides and various types of manuals.
 I have followed instructions or directions contained in hands-on simulations or training videos.
 None of the above.


7.
Select from the following types of manuals you have utilized in order to perform the duties of your job:
 Operating Manuals for Manufacturing equipment, Inspection System Manuals, Technical Manuals, and Quality Control Manuals.
 Inspection system manuals, Technical Manuals, and Quality Control Manuals.
 Technical manuals and Quality Control Manuals.
 Quality Control Manuals or other types of manuals relating to manufacturing processes or equipment.
 I have not used any manual as listed above to perform the duties of a job.


8.
Select from the following pieces of equipment those that you have followed procedures and/or guidelines to operate safely in your past jobs.
 Handtrucks, Forklifts, Power Trucks, and Dollies
 Forklifts, Power Trucks, and Dollies
 Forklifts and Dollies
 Dollies
 I have not safely used any of the above pieces of equipment in past jobs.


9.
Select from the following choices which types of training you have had regarding safety practices and procedures?
 Hands-on Training, On the job training, Classroom training, and Online Training
 On-the-job Training, Classroom training, and Online Training
 Classroom Training and Online training
 Online training methods (e.g E-Learning, Mentorship, Webinar, etc)
 I have had no formal training in safety practices or methods.


10.
Select from the responses below that best describe your abilities in the handling, transportation, and storage of the various materials.
 Followed RCRA/OSHA guidelines for handling hazardous materials, operated manual and power lifting devices and forklifts to transport and store hazardous materials, and independently ensured all hazardous materials have proper identification labels for transportation and storage.
 Operated manual and power lifting devices and forklifts to transport and store hazardous materials, and ensured hazardous materials are transported and stored correctly following guidance from supervisors or senior team members.
 Operated power lifting devices and forklifts to transport and store hazardous materials.
 Ensured all hazardous materials transported or stored within the facility are labeled properly.
 None of the above.


11.
Select from the responses below that best describes your abilities in establishing quality control measures for the storage of various types of hazardous materials.
 Accessed computer databases defining requirements that must be followed to process, ship and store hazardous materials, visually examined and/or inspected hazardous material storage containers for defects (such as cracks, dents, rust, etc.) and independently followed safety procedures when defects have been detected in containers of hazardous materials
 Visually examined and/or inspected hazardous material storage containers for defects (such as cracks, dents, rust, etc.) and followed safety protocols and procedures when defects have been detected in containers of hazardous materials under minimal supervision from supervisors
 Visually examined and/or inspected hazardous material storage containers for defects (such as cracks, dents, rust, etc.) and reported findings to direct supervisors or senior team members for action.
 Followed safety procedures when defects in containers of hazardous materials have been detected as directed under close supervision or guidance.
 I do not have the ability to identify and inspect hazardous material storage containers for defects, follow safety protocols pertaining to identification, detection, and resolution of defects, or define storage requirements.


12.
Choose the statement that best reflects your ability to utilize safety equipment and follow on-the-job safety procedures and protocols in a job setting.
 I have used Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and followed procedures for the proper use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in handling chemicals, hazardous spill clean-up and disposal, as well as procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, climbing, and handling hazardous supplies, materials, and equipment.
 I have the ability to follow established procedures and protocol for the proper use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in handling chemicals, hazardous spill clean-up and disposal as well procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, climbing, and handling hazardous supplies, materials, and equipment.
 I have the ability to follow procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, climbing, and handling hazardous supplies, materials, and equipment.
 I have the ability to follow procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, and climbing in a manufacturing/production environment.
 None of the above.


13.
Select the following tasks that you have performed utilizing computer software as a regular part of your job duties.
 Created and revised a word document, interpreted data from a spreadsheet (e.g. an Excel document), reviewed PowerPoint presentations as created by others, and accessed and created e-mails on e-mail Platforms (such as Outlook).
 Created and/or revised a word document, accessed PowerPoint presentations, and written/responded to e-mails utilizing e-mail Platforms (such as Outlook).
 Created a word document and written/responded to e-mails on e-mail Platforms (such as Outlook).
 Written/responded to e-mails on e-mail Platforms to communicate with others in a job setting (such as Outlook), but do not have job-related experience in using Word, Excel, or PowerPoint programs.
 I have not performed any job-related tasks utilizing any of the above programs.


14.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to work in a position that requires strong attention to detail.
 I have worked in a manufacturing environment with strict guidelines for maintaining quality control of the products being made and independently adhered to such guidelines.
 I have worked in a warehouse environment ensuring high levels of quality control for the products in their inventory and adhered to established guidelines under minimal supervision.
 I have worked in jobs that require established quality standards be adhered to under general supervision.
 I have worked in jobs that require some attention to detail under direct supervision.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙