Position Title
FUL - Biological Science Technician
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYM-26-13055424-FUL-LAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 07, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location.
Location: Warm Springs, OR

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training.  Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


Minimum Qualification GS-06


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes the education or experience you possess that meets the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-06 grade level.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience includes: 1. Independently performing routine fish culture activities involving the feeding, care, handling, rearing, or distribution of multiple life stages of fish; 2. Monitoring fish health and water quality and maintaining fish culture, inventory, feeding, mortality, or water quality records; 3. performing established fish propagation activities, such as spawning, collecting or processing eggs, and/or operating and maintaining fish culture equipment and systems; 4. maintaining and improving hatchery infrastructure, equipment, and grounds; and 5. performing routine health assessments including: necropsies of morbid fish, collecting ovarian fluid samples, external examination of fish for parasites and collecting blood samples, and this is clearly documented in my resume.
 I have successfully completed one year of progressively higher-level graduate level education (18 semester/27 quarter hours or the school's equivalent) leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree at an accredited college or university that included courses directly related to the occupation, such as fishery biology, ichthyology, limnology, and aquaculture.
 I possess an appropriate combination of GS-05 level specialized experience and graduate level education, which, when combined, is equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirements (You must provide a copy of your college transcripts).
 I do not possess the experience and/or education as stated above.


Minimum Qualification GS-07


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes the education or experience you possess that meets the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-07 grade level.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience includes: 1. Independently carrying out multiple phases of fish propagation and culture, such as spawning, egg collection and processing, incubation, rearing, sampling, inventory, or distribution; 2. monitoring fish health, water quality, or culture conditions and identifying problems or making routine adjustments in accordance with established procedures; 3. performing fish health procedures and/or troubleshooting and maintaining fish culture systems and equipment; and 4. performing routine health assessments including: necropsies of morbid fish, collecting ovarian fluid samples, external examination of fish for parasites and collecting blood samples,  and this is clearly documented in my resume.
 I have successfully completed one year of progressively higher-level graduate level education (18 semester/27 quarter hours or the school's equivalent) leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree at an accredited college or university that included courses directly related to the occupation, such as fishery biology, ichthyology, limnology, and aquaculture.
 I possess an appropriate combination of GS-06 level specialized experience and graduate level education, which, when combined, is equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirements (You must provide a copy of your college transcripts).
 I do not possess the experience and/or education as stated above.


Certification


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙