Position Title
WING COMMAND CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT (MERIT, T32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-12996737-AF-26-195 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard.(Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC to include skill level. *


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Does your experience, training and resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level of GS11. Experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the General Experience criteria below?
Experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable?? work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item.


5.
In detail, explain your duties 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level.


6.
In detail, explain your experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operation.


7.
In detail, explain your experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedure.


8.
In detail, explain your experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.


9.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙