Position Title
CUSTODIAL WORKER
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJG-26-13032879-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONAIRE
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Custodial Worker position with the Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform WG-02 Housekeeping Aid duties without more than normal supervision. This is a Screen-Out Factor. Failure to address this screen-out factor adequately in your resume will result in your disqualification for this position. You must select one response. Do not leave this question blank.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex activities within a large hospital housekeeping department. I am skilled in ensuring that sanitary patient care areas are sanitary by performing the following tasks: Cleans office spaces, storerooms, corridors, stairways elevators, hospital rooms, hospital entrances, patient rooms, including patient isolation rooms. and other similar areas; vacuums, damp mops, scrubs, waxes, strips, seals, and polishes floors; vacuums and shampoos rugs. Operates motorized combination scrubber-vacuum machine; wet and dry light power system buffers and scrubbing machinery. Dusts, waxes and polishes furniture. Polishes doorknobs and other metal fixtures; washes walls, windows, windowsills, and blinds. Loads rubbish and infectious wastes into carts, transports carts to areas outside the building and empties carts into commercial containers.
 I have the ability to perform a full range of custodial, janitorial, and housekeeping activities within a large hospital setting. I am skilled in cleaning, disinfecting, and deodorizes lavatories, urinals, and toilet bowls. Cleans mirrors, sinks, and water fountains. Cleaning ledges and woodwork. Replaces soap, towels, and toilet tissue. Makes duty beds, notes condition of spaces and reports to supervisor any broken windows, waters leaks, clogged drains, burned out light bulbs and other equipment requiring maintenance and repair.
 I have the ability to perform common custodial, janitorial, and housekeeping activities within a large hospital setting. I am skilled in loading supply carts and ensuring that adequate cleaning materials and equipment are available to do the job. Cleaning, disinfecting, and deodorizes lavatories, urinals, and toilet bowls.
 I have the ability to perform simple housekeeping activities within a large hospital setting.
 I do have on-the-job training or the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙