Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-13045367-26-TJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the GS-13 Supervisory Recreational Therapist position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Failure to adequately document your experience, or education on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Candidates must be a citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).

Are you a U.S. citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to meet the requirements of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education: The following education requirements apply to the Recreation Therapist/Creative Arts Therapist::

(a) A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. The degree must be approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC);

OR,

(b) A bachelor's degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university and must be a certified therapeutic recreation specialist (CTRS). The degree must be approved by the NCTRC. If hired under this education, the certification cannot be waived.

Do you meet the basic requirements as outlined above?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Provide the following information regarding your academic institution.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Certification Requirement: GS-13 Supervisory Recreation Therapists must be certified as a Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC)

Do you hold a current certification as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) issued by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC)?
 Yes
 No


5.
Supervisory Recreation Therapist, GS-13(a) Experience: The individual must have at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level (GS-12).At the GS-12 Level, experience must 

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to meeting the KSAs at the GS-12 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

i. Ability to provide treatment in complex cases and work with great independence.
ii. Ability to balance multiple responsibilities, set priorities, delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems, and develop and implement effective solutions.
iii. Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and use data to manage workload, quality, performance, and productivity within the service.
iv. Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with employees, team leaders, and managers, to include conflict management.
v. Ability to utilize evidence-based practices and clinical practice guidelines in a professional area and to guide the staff in applying these tools.
vi. Knowledge of organizational theories and strategies to positively impact the overall goals and objectives within the service.
vii. Knowledge related to administrative functions, such as fiscal, material supply, equipment management, and clinical and program management.

Do you meet all of the requirements listed above for the Supervisory Recreation Therapist, GS-13 grade level?

You must fully detail this experience in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following for each job listed:1) Job Title and Grade Level/Salary (for all Federal positions you have held). In order to show that you meet time-in-grade, you must document grades you have held and how long you have held them.2) Duties (you must include enough detailed information to support your specialized experience)3) Month, day and year start/end dates (e.g. FROM 04/02/2007 to TO 04/13/2008)4) Full-time or Part-time status (include HOURS WORKED PER WEEK for each job listed)5) Full Name and Address of Employer

Resume Must Support Response. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

RECOMMENDATION: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, provide a copy of your college transcripts to support your educational claims. Official or unofficial transcripts are acceptable. Transcript must include, at a minimum, student's name, name and location of college/university, courses/credits hours; date of degree and degree granted, as applicable.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙