Position Title
Interdisciplinary Research Nutritionist / Physiologist / Biologist
Agency
Agricultural Research Service
Announcement Number
ARS-D26Y-13066648-LP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Oct 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for those eligibilities.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.



1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14
15


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 0413 - Physiology
 C. 0630 - Dietitian And Nutritionist


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for the Interdisciplinary Research Nutritionist/ Physiologist/ Biologist/ position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.


1.
Select the answer below that describes your education as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this Research Nutritionist (series 0630) position. If you select A or B, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I have completed a bachelor’s (or higher) degree in dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or related science. The educational program must have been accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (external link) (ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For dietitian positions, the curriculum must have been in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (external link) (formerly American Dietetic Association (external link) (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation.
 I have completed a coordinated undergraduate program, internship, or other clinical component approved by AND (formerly ADA) for dietitians or nutritionists.
 I possess valid Professional registration as a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). Please submit a copy of your registration for verification.
 My education/experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
Select the answer below that describes your education as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for the Research Physiologist (series 0413) position. If you select A, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I have completed a bachelor’s (or higher) degree in one of the basic animal sciences or physiology; or a related discipline or field of science that included at least 24 semester hours in the basic animal sciences, of which 10 semester hours were in animal physiology.
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the answer below that describes your education as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this Research Biologist (series 0401) position. If you select A or B, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I have completed a bachelor’s (or higher) degree in in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I do not have at least a bachelor’s degree as described above; however, I do have a combination of education and experience. Specifically, I have course work equivalent to a major as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 My education/experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Choose one answer that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience for the GS-12 grade level.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level. Specialized experience is fulfilled by the following: Assisting with precision nutrition research and study execution; collecting, analyzing, and interpreting experimental data; preparing scientific reports and supporting lab personnel.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, if related. Education must be directly related to the work of the position and must have equipped applicants with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described above.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


5.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience for the GS-13 grade level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level. Specialized experience is fulfilled by the following: Independently conceiving and conducting portions of precision nutrition research; developing research protocols and analytical methods relevant to clinical nutrition or diet feeding studies; performing advanced data analysis and statistical analysis, like experience with omics methods; writing full manuscripts and coordinating with collaborators.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


6.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience for the GS-14 grade level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level. Specialized experience is fulfilled by the following: Leading precision nutrition or studying diet disease relationships or chronic disease research projects; designing and executing detailed observational or RCT clinical studies or experience of participation in large multisite cohorts or biological studies; developing advanced methodologies and authoring high impact publications; directing interdisciplinary teams and supervising research staff; publishing research results as the primary author in peer-reviewed scientific journals .
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


7.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience for the GS-15 grade level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level. Specialized experience is fulfilled by the following: Leading major nutrition research programs with documented publication record and national impact; directing multi-institutional research initiatives, grants and collaborative research; participating in Symposia that define the state of the discipline or introduce new areas in the field; managing a research program, including personnel, equipment and fiscal resources; publishing independent research findings related to nutrition as the primary author in peer-reviewed scientific journals and have record of extramural funding.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


8.
Select the statement that best reflects your education and/or experience.
 A. I possess one or more of the following:(1) a GPA of 2.7 or higher for a degree from an accredited junior college, college, university or other baccalaureate institution; or (2) a GPA of 3.0 or higher in your major field of study for a degree from an accredited junior college, college, university or other baccalaureate institution; or (3) a GPA of 2.7 or higher for at least 24 semester hours of directly related course work (biomedical sciences, biochemistry, biological sciences, epidemiology, nutritional sciences and dietetics, clinical nutrition, clinical research, molecular nutrition, human nutrition, nutritional physiology, nutritional genomics, medical nutrition, community nutrition, nutritional epidemiology, medicine, physiology, exercise physiology, endocrinology, pathobiology, genetics, food science, cell and molecular biology, public health, food systems, translational health sciences, physiology, microbiology, animal science, analytical chemistry, pharmacology, pathology, immunology, toxicology, or sciences related to the work of a nutrition focused researcher) above the high school level? If you select this answer, please submit transcripts.
 B. I am a member of a national honor society (other than a freshman honor society) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies? If you select this answer, please include the name of the Society in your application package.
 C. I have completed all requirements for an advanced degree (beyond the baccalaureate) in a directly related field from an accredited institution? Directly related fields of study include: biomedical sciences, biochemistry, biological sciences, epidemiology, nutritional sciences and dietetics, clinical nutrition, clinical research, molecular nutrition, human nutrition, nutritional physiology, nutritional genomics, medical nutrition, community nutrition, nutritional epidemiology, medicine, physiology, exercise physiology, endocrinology, pathobiology, genetics, food science, cell and molecular biology, public health, food systems, translational health sciences, physiology, microbiology, animal science, analytical chemistry, pharmacology, pathology, immunology, toxicology, or sciences related to the work of a nutrition focused researcher. If you select this answer, please submit transcripts.
 D. I have experience developing and conducting nutrition related research projects and have published articles in journals documenting efforts and results of research. Experience in developing research plans to meet National goals. Must have experience recruiting, attracting, and retaining scientific talent. Also, must have experience supervising scientists and managing resources including people, facilities, and funds. Must have experience working with stakeholders, commodity groups, industry partners and university collaborators.
 E. I do not possess any of the above.


9.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙