Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12904607-26-YM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Health Technician (Pedorthist). The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-07. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-03 to GS-07. 

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package: 

GS-03:
None beyond the basic requirements.
GS-04:
Knowledge of patient related psychology, for example age-related competency, patient, and caregiver stressors.
Knowledge of foundational sciences related to development of pedorthic treatment, for example anatomy, biomechanics, and pathology.
Knowledge of materials science commonly used in fabrication, for example adhesives, plastics, composites, metals, and leather.
Knowledge of regulations and procedures to ensure patient privacy.
Ability to assign Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding to pedorthic devices.
GS-05:
Skill in conducting patient assessments.
Skill in developing simple pedorthic devices (includes assessment, measurement, selection, and fitting).
Ability to consult with providers and allied health colleagues regarding treatment.
Ability to assess device to ensure structural soundness and compliance with prescription and fit.
GS-06:
Skill in developing a follow up treatment plan for complex pedorthic device types.
Ability to process paperwork for pedorthic devices being produced and fitted by vendor.
Ability to place administrative orders with procurement staff for treatment modalities.
Ability to assess device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Ability to process consults/orders.
GS-07:
Skill in designing advanced pedorthic devices.
Skill in assessing device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Skill in written communication.
Skill in oral communication.
Skill in fabrication of all pedorthic device types.
Skill in designing innovative pedorthic devices to include new and emerging technology.
 
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.



Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Credential Requirements: 
Candidates must be board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).  OR
Credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).  OR
Non-credentialed individuals who have successfully completed a Board for Certification in Pedorthics (BCP), Commission on Accreditation of Pedorthic Education (CAPE), National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPE), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or American Board for Certification of Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC) approved pedorthic certificate program and otherwise meet ABC's eligibility requirements for certificationmay be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).  (PROOF OF CERTIFICATE PROGRAM COMPLETION REQUIRED - PLEASE INCLUDE WITH APPLICATION PACKAGE FOR VERIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FULFILLMENT)  Non-credentialed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
 Yes
 No - I understand that if selected, I can and will only be given a temporary appointment (not to be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment) as an entry level (GS-03) Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B), will only be able to provide care under the clinical oversight of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or orthotist/prosthetist at or above the full performance level, and will not be eligible for promotion until certification is obtained.


GRADE DETERMINATIONS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-04 Grade Requirements: In addition to the basic requirements, have six months of experience demonstrating knowledge, skills and abilities associated with pedorthic practice equivalent to the GS-03 which includes: taking measurements, patient communication and fabrication and fitting of simple devices, and using common office software to perform basic computing tasks such as communication via email and manipulation of documents.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-05 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements, I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-04 which includes: attending clinic to observe and articulate understanding of terms and diagnoses encountered; observing and assisting in the evaluation of the prescription, the assessment of the patient, preparation, and modification of casts for simple device types, repairs, and fabrication of simple devices in accordance with the input of the supervising clinician; assisting the credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or CPO with providing instructions to patients and caregivers on the function, care, use, maintenance, and skin condition concerns related to the pedorthic device; assisting with the formulation and implementation of a follow up treatment plan; documenting workload, procedure coding, progress notes, and encounter completion into the electronic medical record; ensuring patient privacy.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-06 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements, I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 which includes: consulting for guidance not covered by instructions; consulting with the physician, therapist, and/or senior pedorthist/orthotist/prosthetist staff members to obtain and understand the prescription; conducting patient assessments, taking scans, and measurements for simple devices, preparing and modifying casts for simple devices; providing patient services with simple devices, patient/caregiver education, and assistance with complex device types; assisting with assessment of devices for structural soundness, compliance with the prescription, fit and patient comfort; developing a follow up treatment plan for typical conditions; observing the casting and provision of advanced device types.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-07 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements, I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-06, which includes: a broad working knowledge of simple and complex device types; independently taking scans and measurements; preparing and modifying casts and repairs and fabricating complex devices in accordance with the input of the individual providing clinical oversight; providing complex devices and delivering patient/caregiver education; assessing simple and complex devices for quality including structural soundness, compliance with the prescription, fit, and patient comfort; assisting with advanced device types to include quality assurance assessment; assisting with development of a follow up treatment plan for atypical conditions; assisting with administrative activities including, but not limited to, assigning Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding of pedorthic devices to facilitate procurement, preparing documentation for Veterans being sent to vendors, participating in interdisciplinary teams, processing consults and generating administrative orders for procurement of pedorthic devices.
 Yes
 No


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
 
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙