Position Title
Electrician
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVI-26-13052992-DE-CMA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


1.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


2.
You must maintain a valid State Driver's License at all times as the position requires operation of government vehicles on government and public roads. Do you currently have, or can you acquire prior to entrance on duty, a valid Driver's License and the ability to operate a government vehicle?
 Yes
 No


If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


3.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for an Electrician, BB-2810-00 position. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have experience in an industrial setting which demonstrates my skill to perform electrical work on equipment rated above 600V, which involves installing, testing, maintaining, repairing and/or troubleshooting of electrical equipment with limited supervision.
 I have experience working in a powerplant (greater than 5 MW) that is connected to an independent electrical power transmission grid which demonstrates my skill to perform work on electrical equipment. My experience includes the installation, testing, maintenance, repair, and troubleshooting of electrical equipment under intermittent supervision.
 I have experience working in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1 MW) that demonstrates my skill to independently handle complex problems on electrical equipment. My experience includes installing, maintaining, testing, repairing, and troubleshooting electrical equipment.


2.
Select the one response that represents the apprenticeship or technical degree program you have completed in a trade or craft directly related to the position to be filled.

 I have completed a formal apprenticeship program (approximately 8,000 hours) recognized by the Department of Labor. The program was comprised of systematic on the job training supplemented with classroom instruction and correspondence courses at progressively increased levels of both practical and theoretical complexity.
 I have completed a technical degree program from an accredited college or vocational technical school (two-year program or 60 credit units minimum) in a trade or craft that included courses on theoretical principles and practical workshop experience.
 I have completed an employer or military sponsored technical training program comprised of progressively increased levels of on-the job training, formal classroom or correspondence coursework and I have applied these skills in the positions I have held.
 I have participated in a formal apprenticeship or technical training program but have yet to complete it.
 I have completed a formal apprenticeship program or a technical training program but, in a trade or craft not related to the position being filled.
 None of the above.


3.
I have experience maintaining, troubleshooting, repairing and installing the following powerplant electrical equipment.
 A. Governors
 B. Multiple stage air compressors
 C. Generators
 D. Excitation systems
 E. Battery systems (125VDC 400AH or greater)
 F. Circuit breakers (less than 600V)
 G. Circuit breakers (600V-24KV)
 H. Circuit breakers (low voltage to medium voltage)
 I. Transformers (greater than 10MVA)
 J. Controls, power and indicators for auxiliary equipment
 K. Large motors (500 horsepower or more)
 L. Current transformers/potential transformers
 M. Elevator controls and/or drives
 N. High voltage disconnects/ground switches
 O. None of the above


4.
Select the following task(s) that represent your strongest capabilities.
 A. Maintaining and testing battery chargers/systems
 B. Wiring electrical circuits (less than 600V)
 C. Wiring electrical circuits (600V to 15KV)
 D. Repairing and maintaining HVAC systems
 E. Troubleshooting and repairing governors
 F. Maintaining and testing power circuit breakers (air, vacuum, oil or SF6)
 G. Troubleshooting electrical circuits
 H. Maintaining power transformers (greater than 10MVA)
 I. Testing high voltage equipment
 J. Repairing large shaft generators (greater than 5MW)
 K. Repairing large hydroelectric generators (greater than 1MW)
 L. Troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining excitation systems
 M. Troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining elevators
 N. None of the above


5.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience, education or training, in reading and interpreting blueprints and drawings, and manufacturer's instructions to maintain and repair electrical equipment.

 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have read and interpreted blueprints and drawings and manufacturer’s instructions to maintain and repair electrical equipment in an industrial maintenance facility.
 I have read and interpreted blueprints and drawings and manufacturer's instructions to maintain and repair electrical equipment in a powerplant facility.
 I have read and interpreted blueprints and drawings and manufacturer's instructions to maintain and repair electrical equipment in a hydroelectric powerplant. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely, and I have made corrections to blueprints and drawings to reflect actual conditions.


6.
Select the response that best describes your experience with applying series and parallel circuits theory in electrical practices.

 I have not used this electrical theory.
 I have received post high school education or formal training (apprenticeship) on this electrical theory, but I have not applied the theory on the job.
 I have used this electrical theory in closely supervised work.
 I have used this electrical theory for troubleshooting electrical systems with minimal supervision.
 I have used this electrical theory along with mathematical analysis of circuits, with minimal supervision.


7.
Select the response that best describes your experience with applying power analysis (such as 3-phase power, power factor, and load calculations) in electrical practices.

 I have not used this electrical theory.
 I have received post high school education or formal training (apprenticeship) on this electrical theory, but I have not applied the theory on the job.
 I have used this electrical theory in closely supervised work.
 I have used this electrical theory for troubleshooting electrical systems with minimal supervision.
 I have used this electrical theory along with mathematical analysis of circuits, with minimal supervision.


8.
Select the response that best describes your experience with applying transformer theory in electrical practices.

 I have not used this electrical theory.
 I have received post high school education or formal training (apprenticeship) on this electrical theory, but I have not applied the theory on the job.
 I have used this electrical theory in closely supervised work.
 I have used this electrical theory for troubleshooting electrical systems with minimal supervision.
 I have used this electrical theory along with mathematical analysis of circuits, with minimal supervision.


9.
Select the response that best describes your experience with applying AC motor and generator theory in electrical practices.

 I have not used this electrical theory.
 I have received post high school education or formal training (apprenticeship) on this electrical theory, but I have not applied the theory on the job.
 I have used this electrical theory in closely supervised work.
 I have used this electrical theory for troubleshooting electrical systems with minimal supervision.
 I have used this electrical theory along with mathematical analysis of circuits, with minimal supervision.


10.
Select the response that best describes your experience with applying direct current theory in electrical practices.

 I have not used this electrical theory.
 I have received post high school education or formal training (apprenticeship) on this electrical theory, but I have not applied the theory on the job.
 I have used this electrical theory in closely supervised work.
 I have used this electrical theory for troubleshooting electrical systems with minimal supervision.
 I have used this electrical theory along with mathematical analysis of circuits, with minimal supervision.


11.
Select the power and hand tools you have operated or used in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Wire cutting tools (strippers, pliers, knife, saw, etc.)
 B. Wire pulling tools (fish tapes, tuggers)
 C. Soldering irons and torches
 D. Torque wrenches/screwdrivers
 E. Contact burnishers
 F. Commutator burnishers
 G. Conduit benders
 H. Knockout punches
 I. Pipe threaders
 J. Power-driven cutting equipment
 K. Portable band saw
 L. None of the above


12.
Select the electrical test equipment you have operated or used in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Clamp-on amp meters
 B. Potentiometers
 C. Phase sequence tester
 D. Infra-red gun or camera
 E. Megger [1] F. Doble
 F. Hi Pot (AC and DC)
 G. High current test set
 H. Oscilloscopes
 I. Breaker timing tester
 J. Digital low resistance Ohm Meter
 K. None of the above


13.
Select the electrical and electronic equipment you have maintained in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Exciters
 B. Alarm systems
 C. Generator controls and protection systems
 D. Generators (greater than 5MW)
 E. Hydroelectric generators (greater than 1 MW)
 F. High Voltage Switches
 G. Busses (medium voltage or higher)
 H. Electro-mechanical governor controls
 I. AC/DC motors and motor controls
 J. Switchgear
 K. Motor operated valves
 L. Lighting fixtures
 M. DC battery systems
 N. AC UPS systems
 O. None of the above


14.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.

 I have no experience with safe clearance procedures
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200 CFS capacity) and verified the clearance boundary.


15.
From the following list, select all of the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures that you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment.
 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (HECP)
 C. Electrical Safety
 D. Respiratory Protection
 E. Confined Space
 F. Hazwopper and Safety Data Sheets (SDS)
 G. Personal Fall Protection
 H. Asbestos Awareness
 I. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA), including National Electric Code
 J. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards
 K. None of the above


16.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙