Position Title
PRIMARY PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12906995-AR-T526-5005 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question(s):



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
Applicant must possess the following education and/or experience:

Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.

or

Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.

or

Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.


To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.
To ensure full credit is given for education requirements, an OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT(s) must be submitted.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?

 Yes
 No


The following questions are designed to help us understand your experience, skills, and approach to work. Please provide specific examples from your professional history in your responses.



3.
Section 1: Project Management & Strategy
Meeting Deadlines: Describe your approach to meeting both individual and team deadlines.
Data Coordination: Describe your experience obtaining and coordinating data from internal and external sources, including other agencies. Provide an example from your work history that demonstrates your ability to manage these efforts independently.
Strategic Planning & Leadership Advisement: Share an example from your professional experience where you developed and executed a multi-faceted strategy. In your response, detail how you collaborated with or advised leaders to help implement improvements and achieve your strategic goals.
Risk Assessment: Describe your experience identifying risk factors that contribute to unhealthy or unsafe behaviors, as well as the protective factors that can mitigate them.


4.
Section 2: Communication & Stakeholder Engagement
Stakeholder Identification: Who do you consider to be the key stakeholders of the ID National Guard?
Stakeholder Facilitation: Describe a time you facilitated dialogue between internal and external stakeholders to ensure a program's success. What communication strategies and skills did you use to foster effective collaboration?
Formal Presentations: This position requires formal presentations and briefings. Describe a specific time you presented on a complex topic, including the subject, your preparation process, the audience, and the outcome of the presentation.


5.
Section 3: Military & Organizational Interaction
Working within a Chain of Command: Whether as a service member, civilian, or volunteer, describe your experience working within a military chain of command. What were your successes, challenges, and key lessons learned?
Committee & Group Contribution: Describe your experience serving on an advisory committee, board, or working group. What specific role or leadership qualities did you contribute that influenced the group's direction and supported its goals?
Availability for Drill Weekends: This position requires regular interaction with unit leaders, commanders, and Service Members during Drill Weekends. Please comment on your availability and ability to meet this critical requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙