Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12867778-26-DAY Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Applicants must have completed of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Public Law 97-35, the Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981, requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75, Standards for the Accreditation of Educational Programs and the Credentialing of Radiographic Personnel. Essentially, they must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education and be certified as radiographers in their field.

Do you possess education requirement to meet basic qualification requirements for this position?
 I have completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate. (Copy of Certificate Required)
 I have an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE) (Transcripts Required)
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard. (Note: Please Submit Non-Award "SF-50" for Current VA Employees)
 I do not possess the education requirement to meet basic qualification requirements for this position.


2a.
Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.
Type of Degree:
Name of Academic Institution:
City and State:
Date conferred:

If you have been employed by VHA in this occupation and do not currently hold a certification in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (R) and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".
 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R).

Are you currently certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Certification Information: Provide the following information regarding your certification:
Name on Certification:
Type of Certification:
Complete Certification number:
Issue Date:
Expiration Date:

If you are currently employed by VHA in this occupation and do not have certification and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".

If you not currently (ARRT) (R) certified but are otherwise qualified pending completion of prerequisites for (ARRT) (R) certification. As such, you are willing to accept an appointment at the GS-05 grade level, with the requirement that you will attain certification within 2 years to maintain appointment in VHA. Failure to become (ARRT) (R) certified within the prescribed amount of time will result in removal from the GS-0647, Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT) series and may result in termination of employment. Simply note "Willing to accept a temporary appointment at the GS-05 grade level, with the requirements".


GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Diagnostic Radiologic Technician GS-05

Experience or Education: None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Diagnostic Radiologic Technician GS-06

Experience or Education. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
Knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
Knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
Ability to learn basic computer functions.
Do you meet the above requirements?
REMINDER: Experience and KSA's must be clearly detailed in your resume.
 Yes
 No


6.
Diagnostic Radiologic Technician GS-07

Experience or Education. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level; or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging; or successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging. Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills.
Do you meet the above requirements?
REMINDER: Experience and KSA's must be clearly detailed in your resume.
 Yes
 No


7.
Diagnostic Radiologic Technician GS-08:

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities 
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed. Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest
Do you meet the requirements as described above?
REMINDER: Experience and KSA's must be clearly detailed in your resume.
 Yes, I have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities at the GS-08 grade level.
 No, I do not have the experience for the GS-08 grade level and can not demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙