Position Title
Trial Attorney
Agency
Office of General Counsel
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12959242-X Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to May 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Anchorage, AK
 AO. Phoenix, AZ
 AP. Little Rock, AR
 AQ. Los Angeles, CA
 AR. San Francisco, CA
 AS. Santa Ana, CA
 AT. Denver, CO
 AU. Hartford, CT
 AV. Wilmington, DE
 AW. Jacksonville, FL
 AX. Miami, FL
 AY. Atlanta, GA
 AZ. Honolulu, HI
 BA. Boise, ID
 BB. Chicago, IL
 BC. Indianapolis, IN
 BD. Des Moines, IA
 BE. Kansas City, KS
 BF. Louisville, KY
 BG. New Orleans, LA
 BH. Bangor, ME
 BI. Baltimore, MD
 BJ. Boston, MA
 BK. Detroit, MI
 BL. Minneapolis, MN
 B. Jackson, MS
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Helena, MT
 E. Omaha, NE
 F. Las Vegas, NV
 G. Manchester, NH
 H. Newark, NJ
 I. Albuquerque, NM
 J. Albany, NY
 K. Buffalo, NY
 L. New York, NY
 M. Greensboro, NC
 N. Fargo, ND
 O. Cleveland, OH
 P. Columbus, OH
 Q. Oklahoma City, OK
 R. Tulsa, OK
 S. Portland, OR
 T. Philadelphia, PA
 U. Pittsburgh, PA
 V. San Juan, PR
 W. Providence, RI
 X. Columbia, SC
 Y. Sioux Falls, SD
 Z. Knoxville, TN
 AA. Memphis, TN
 AC. Nashville, TN
 AD. Fort Worth, TX
 AE. Houston, TX
 AF. San Antonio, TX
 AG. Salt Lake City, UT
 AH. Burlington, VT
 AI. Alexandria, VA
 AJ. Richmond, VA
 AK. Seattle, WA
 AL. Charleston, WV
 AM. Milwaukee, WI
 AN. Casper, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


3.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


8.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


9.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


10.
Are you a current HUD employee?
 Yes
 No


Performance Appraisal
1.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements: 

Law Degree: Applicants must be a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B., J.D. or equivalent.; AND

Bar Membership: Applicants must be a current member of a bar with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

Please make sure that you clearly include in your resume your Bar membership information as well as your professional degree from the accredited Law school where you received this degree.


1.
Do you meet the Basic Requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


Requirements for meeting the GS-12 Education:

 First professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus two (2) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-11 in the federal service. OR 

Second professional law degree (LL.M.), plus one (1) year specialized experience at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-11. OR

 Superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the schools official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus one (1) year of specialized experience which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-11 level in the Federal service.


2.
Select the choice that best describes how you meet the requirements for the GS-12.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus two (2) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-11 in the federal service.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.M.), plus one (1) year professional legal experience at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-11 level in the Federal service.
 I have superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the school’s official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus one (1) year of professional legal experience which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-11 level in the Federal service.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position as described above.


In addition to the above requirements, you must meet the Specialized Experience at the GS-12. 

Specialized Experience for the GS-12, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 
Experience as an attorney responsible for litigating or assisting in litigation before Federal or State courts or administrative forums; OR 
Applying Federal laws and practice related to all types of litigation, including affirmative and defensive litigation matters, personnel law matters, ethics opinions and advice, fair housing enforcement or procurement, OR 
Representing clients in adversarial proceedings, including hearings before Federal or State courts or administrative forums; OR
Interpreting federal, state or local statutes, conducting legal research and preparing pleadings, including briefs, motions, memoranda of law, legal opinions or other legal writings and preparing, defending or conducting discovery; OR 
Interacting directly with clients and government officials at the Headquarters, Regional and Field level, United States Attorneys, members of the private bar, as well as the public.


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.


3a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Requirements for meeting the GS-13 education:

 First professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus three (3) years of professional legal experience one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-12. OR

 Second professional law degree (LL.M.), plus two (2) years of professional legal experience at least one year of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-12. OR 

Superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the schools official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus two (2) years of professional legal experience, at least one year of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to GS-12.


4.
Select the choice that best describes how you meet the requirements for the GS-13.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus three (3) years of professional legal experience one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-12 level in the Federal service.
 have a professional law degree (LL.M.), plus two (2) years of professional legal experience at least one year of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-12 level in the Federal service.
 I have superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the schools official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus two (2) years of professional legal experience, at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-12 level in the Federal service.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position as described above.


In addition to the above requirements, you must meet the Specialized Experience at the GS-13. 

Specialized Experience for the GS-13, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 
Experience as an attorney responsible for litigating or assisting in litigation before Federal or State courts or administrative forums; OR 
Applying Federal laws and practice related to all types of litigation, including affirmative and defensive litigation matters, personnel law matters, ethics opinions and advice, fair housing enforcement or procurement, OR 
Representing clients in adversarial proceedings, including hearings before Federal or State courts or administrative forums; OR
Interpreting federal, state or local statutes, conducting legal research and preparing pleadings, including briefs, motions, memoranda of law, legal opinions or other legal writings and preparing, defending or conducting discovery; OR 
Interacting directly with clients and government officials at the Headquarters, Regional and Field level, United States Attorneys, members of the private bar, as well as the public.


5.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


5a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Requirements for meeting the GS-14 Education:

First professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus four (4) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-13. OR 

Second professional law degree (LL.M.), plus three (3) years of professional legal experience at least one year of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-13 OR 

Superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the schools official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus three (3) years of professional legal experience, at least one year of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to GS-13.


6.
Select the choice that best describes how you meet the requirements for the GS-14.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus four (4) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the 13 level in the Federal service.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.M.), plus three (3) years of professional legal experience at least one year of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-13 level in the Federal service.
 I have superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the schools official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus three (3) years of professional experience, at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-13 level in the Federal service.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position as described above.


In addition to the above requirements, you must meet the Specialized Experience at the GS-14. 

Specialized Experience for the GS-14, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 
Experience as an attorney responsible for litigating or assisting in litigation before Federal or State courts or administrative forums; OR 
Applying Federal laws and practice related to all types of litigation, including affirmative and defensive litigation matters, personnel law matters, ethics opinions and advice, fair housing enforcement or procurement, OR 
Representing clients in adversarial proceedings, including hearings before Federal or State courts or administrative forums; OR
Interpreting federal, state or local statutes, conducting legal research and preparing pleadings, including briefs, motions, memoranda of law, legal opinions or other legal writings and preparing, defending or conducting discovery; OR 
Interacting directly with clients and government officials at the Headquarters, Regional and Field level, United States Attorneys, members of the private bar, as well as the public.


7.
Select the answer that best describes your experience
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


7a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙