Position Title
Accounts Payable Accountant
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
OFRM-166-27-13080764-MP
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce? For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No
2.
Do you currently work as a Federal employee with the Department of Commerce ? To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site that verify your current employment with the Department of Commerce.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No
2.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No
3.
How did you learn about this position?
 College or University
 Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
 Conference or Meeting
 Professional Organization
 Job Fair
 Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
 USAJOBS search
 NIST Careers website
 LinkedIn
 Facebook
 Twitter
 None of the above
 Other
4.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
 RecruitMilitary Career Fair
 Maryland School Week (Howard Community College, UMD, and Towson)
 Biomedical Engineering Society 2026 Annual Meeting
 Colorado School Week (CU Denver, Colorado School of Mines, and Community College of Denver)
 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Annual Meeting
 Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Conference
 Student Veterans of America 19th Annual NatCon
 CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Career Fair
 Maryland School Week (Frederick Community College, Montgomery College, and UMBC)
 Colorado School Week (Front Range Community College, Metro State University, and CU Boulder)
 National Science Teaching Association's National Conference on Science Education
 American Chemical Society Spring Meeting
 RecruitMilitary Career Fair
 APS Global Physics Summit 2027
 Symposium on Data Science & Statistics (SDSS) Conference
 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC) Conference
 High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
 Service Academy Career Conference
 Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Career Fair
 DC School Week (Georgetown, Catholic University, GW)
 Denver School Week (Regis University, University of Denver, Red Rocks Community College)
 Handshake Job Posting
 LinkedIn Job Posting (NIST Careers)
 a NIST Talent Ambassador
Accountant, ZA-0510-II
1.
How do you meet the BASIC qualification requirements for the position?
 I have a degree in accounting.
 I have a degree in a related field such as business administration finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting.
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: (1) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses; (2) a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor; OR (3) completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing provided that (a) you have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors have determined that your experience is equivalent to a four-year course of study; AND (c) your education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 None of the above
2.
How do you meet the qualification requirements for a ZA-II position?
 I have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the ZA-1 (GS-7 equivalent), as described in the vacancy announcement
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I have LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I have a combination of graduate education and experience
 None of the above
