Position Title
Therapeutic Medical Physicist- Relocation Incentive Authorized
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12931624-26-PT Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Jul 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Therapeutic Medical Physicist. The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-13. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-12 to GS-13. 

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:
GS-12:
1. Knowledge of the scientific and technical principles and properties of radiotherapy devices for external beam radiotherapy. This includes specialized knowledge of the clinical applications of these devices.
2. Ability to exercise independent judgment in the calibration and commissioning of external beam photon and electron beam delivery devices for clinical use. This includes specialized knowledge of the acceptance testing and commissioning of radiation therapy treatment simulation equipment such as Computerized Tomography (CT) simulators.
3. Scientific and technical knowledge of electronic data handling techniques and software.
4. Ability to exercise independent judgment in the safe operation of radiotherapy equipment and quality assurance. This includes specialized knowledge of sources of uncertainty associated with treatment delivery and how to minimize the deviation between planned and delivered treatments; configuration of test equipment and associated software; and expected equipment performance for external beam radiotherapy treatment, brachytherapy, and simulation equipment.
5. Detailed scientific and technical knowledge of radiotherapy treatment planning principles, treatment planning algorithms, and treatment delivery.
6. Knowledge of scientific and technical aspects of brachytherapy delivery systems and radiation sources.
7. Ability to exercise independent judgment in radiation shielding techniques for external beam delivery systems. This includes specialized knowledge of detection and survey methods for external beam delivery systems. This also includes knowledge of regulatory requirements and guidelines for radiation shielding and protection.
8. Knowledge of multi-modality medical imaging to include a detailed scientific and technical understanding of megavoltage photon beam imaging, CT, radiographic imaging, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission computed tomography.

GS-13:
1. Knowledge regarding the safe and efficient use of all radiotherapy devices for external beam radiotherapy.
2. The ability to evaluate and ensure correct and safe operation of radiotherapy equipment through complex problem diagnosis and scheduled quality assurance.
3. Knowledge of the scientific, clinical, and technical applications of high dose rate and low dose rate brachytherapy treatment simulation, planning, dosimetry, and treatment methods.
4. Expertise in the professional, scientific, and technical aspects of shielding methods for external beam radiation delivery systems, radiation survey methods, developing procedures, setting action levels, delivering radiation safety training, developing and documenting competencies, and reporting. This includes an in-depth knowledge of regulatory requirements and guidelines for radiation shielding and personnel protection.
5. Ability to exercise independent professional judgment in the performance and evaluation of calibration, acceptance testing, and clinical commissioning procedures for all types of external beam photon and electron beam delivery systems. Skilled in the evaluation of acceptance testing and commissioning results of CT simulators.
6. Technical skills in 3-D treatment planning, intensity modulated radiation therapy treatment planning, and stereotactic body radiation therapy planning. This includes specialized knowledge of clinical process steps and resource requirements for planning and delivery of radiation oncology treatments. 
7. Ability to process information from multi-modality imaging datasets for treatment planning, treatment verification, and radiotherapy response assessment.
 

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.



1.
Education. Do you possess a Master's degree or higher in a physics, science, or engineering discipline recognized by an accredited college or university with at least 30 semester hours in medical physics, health physics, radiological science, physics, engineering, chemistry, or biology; or an equivalent foreign degree and coursework substantiated by the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services? (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 Yes
 No, I do not meet this Educational requirement.


2.
Please provide the following information regarding your education: school attended, degree obtained, and date it will be, or was awarded.


3.
Board Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to TMP positions in the VHA must be board certified in the field of therapeutic medical physics by an approved certifying body. The board certificate must be current and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education. Approved Certifying Bodies (a) The American Board of Radiology (ABR) in any of the following field titles: Therapeutic Medical Physics Therapeutic Radiologic or Therapeutic Radiological Physics Radiologic Physics or Radiological Physics (b) The American Board of Medical Physics (ABMP) in the subfield of Radiation Oncology Physics. (c) The Canadian College of Physicists in Medicine (CCPM) in the subfield of Radiation Oncology Physics. Are you Board Certified in a field of therapeutic medical physics by an approved certifying body?
 Yes. I am board certified in the field of therapeutic medical physics by an approved certifying body as stated above.
 No, but I would be eligible for a temporary appointment as a "graduate Therapeutic Medical Physicist".
 No


4.
Please provide the following information regarding your Board certification: Certifying body, active or expired, and date of original issuance.


5.
GS-12 GRADE DETERMINATION: I meet the basic requirements for this position.
 Yes
 I am eligible for a temporary appointment as a "graduate Therapeutic Medical Physicist".
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-13 GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to the basic requirements, I have completion of a minimum of 1 year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. Experience includes: I provide direct evaluation of radiation therapy patients with regard to safety and accuracy of delivery through determination of the methodology for accurate positioning of the patient and assessment of the feasibility of delivery of the prescribed plan. Apply specialized knowledge of treatment planning in order to assess the fidelity of treatment plan alternatives. Organize treatment plans, chooses the modality, and oversees the delivery of treatment. Provide direct assessment of the patient in order to render clinical physics judgment for radiation planning and Work and exercises sound judgment in the evaluation of the quality, safety, and accuracy of radiation treatments planned and delivered to patients, thus ensuring that correct radiation dose is delivered as prescribed. Implement radiation therapy of marked difficulty and responsibility because the underlying radiotherapy planning and delivery process has multiple potential failure modes of a highly complex nature. Is responsible for the technical aspects of external beam treatment procedures from treatment simulation to treatment planning to the actual treatment delivery. Provides limited leadership, guidance and oversight of the work of medical dosimetrists and radiation therapists. Performs the following actions to assist in the implementation of new equipment and processes: assesses radiation therapy equipment needs; performs acceptance testing and commissioning of new radiation therapy equipment; evaluates the adequacy of room shielding; performs radiation surveys; and develops and implements treatment processes. Also perform the following actions to oversee radiation therapy treatment planning: monitors and improves treatment processes; evaluates treatment plans for conformance to department standards, ensures the accuracy of treatments and integrity of data recorded in the patient's medical records; performs patient-specific treatment validation measurements; and documents medical physics policies and procedures for the delivery and quality assessment of advanced treatment procedures such as intensity modulated radiation therapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy, and brachytherapy. Operate and documents the medical physics quality assurance program; applies Federal regulations as they relate to ionizing radiation medical use; and manages the radiation safety program for radiation oncology.
 Yes
 No



***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

 

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

 

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:

 

· Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.

· Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

 

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

 

Some helpful tips:

*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

o Job title

o Grade Level (for federal positions)

o Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)

o Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)

o Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

 

*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

 

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

 

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙