Position Title
Optometrist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12819984-26-KL Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 31, 2025 to Nov 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Optometrist position within the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System (CAVHCS). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government, and your eligibility for referral consideration. Please select the most appropriate response to each of the following questions. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy, and to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Failure to claim at least one eligibility will result in an ineligible rating. Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. We will not make assumptions and are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please make sure to review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

NOTE: Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens.

 Yes
 No


2.
Have you earned a degree of Doctor of Optometry or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in optometric medicine?

NOTE: The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed.
Approved schools are: Schools of optometric medicine accredited by the Council on Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association.

NOTE: For foreign medical graduates CAVHCS must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed.

 Yes, I have obtained a degree from a school of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted.
 Yes, I have obtained a degree from a school of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted.
 Yes, I am a foreign medical graduate, and my education has been verified with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) validating that I have met requirements for certification. NOTE: A copy of the ECFMG certificate must be provided.
 No, I have not earned a degree of Doctor of Medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine, nor am I a foreign medical graduate.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice optometric medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?

NOTE: Physicians must possess a current, full and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. As a physician, you must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure.

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently have, or have you ever had, any license(s) revoked, suspended, denied, restricted, limited, or issued/placed in a probationary status?



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Are you proficient in both the spoken and written English language?

NOTE: Physicians appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d).

 Yes
 No


6.
I understand that because I am claiming eligibility based on my medical school education, I must include a copy of my medical school transcripts that illustrate the name and address of the college or university attended. Additionally, I must also provide documentation to show proof of residency/fellowship completion.

NOTE: Transcripts can be unofficial. If selected, you may be asked to submit official transcripts. Do not submit copies of your diploma. Diplomas will not be accepted in lieu of school transcripts.

 Yes
 No


7.
I understand that the VA Form 10-2850 Application for Physicians, Dentists, Podiatrists, Optometrists & Chiropractors MUST be completed in its entirety and included in my application package for me to be considered for this vacancy. This form can be found at: http://vaww.va.gov/vaforms/medical/pdf/vha-2850-fill_BAK.pdf (http://vaww.va.gov/vaforms/medical/pdf/vha-2850-fill_BAK.pdf)

 Yes
 No


8.
I understand that if I am a veteran and claiming veteran's preference, I am required to submit legible copy/copies of DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable. Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.

If you are a veteran with a service-connected disability, you are required to submit legible copy/copies of DD-214 Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty showing dates of service, as well as character of discharge; member copy 4 of the DD-214 is preferable. Note: if you have more than one DD-214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.; AND you must also provide a copy of a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, dated 1991 or later, certifying an OVERALL Service-Connected Disability.

 Yes
 No


9.
I understand that my C.V. or resume may be submitted in any format. My C.V. or resume must include my first and last name, current address, current email address, current phone number, job title, duties and accomplishments. For qualifications determinations my C.V. or resume must contain hours worked per week and the dates of employment (i.e., month/year to month/year or month/year to present). If my C.V. or resume does not contain this information, my application may be marked as incomplete and I may not receive consideration for this vacancy. I am encouraged to include my employer's name and address, and my supervisor's name and phone number. If I am a current Federal employee or previous Federal employee, I should also provide my pay plan, series and grade level (e.g. GS-0201-09).

NOTE: If your C.V. or resume includes a photograph or other inappropriate material or content, it may not be used and you may not be considered for this vacancy.

 Yes
 No


10.
I understand that my responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with my resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.

Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy, then read the integrity certification statement in the next question, in its entirety, and then certify the accuracy of your application, assessment questionnaire, and supporting documents by selecting the appropriate response.

 Yes
 No


11.
Please select the one response below that best certifies your level of understanding to the integrity of your application.

 Yes, I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this application, assessment questionnaire, and supporting documents is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application, assessment questionnaire, and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I further understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 No, I cannot certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this application, assessment questionnaire, and supporting documents are true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙