Position Title
Mixed Secondary Teacher (0220/0320 Social Studies/ 0301 Digital Media Communications)
Agency
Department of War Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12949186-MPEXT Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Excepted Service Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) Employee

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) civilian employee serving in the excepted service?

• You must submit a copy of your most recent SF50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2".
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) Civilian Employees

Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. (Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1"); OR

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA). You must submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflecting current DoDEA Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current DoWEA employee as described in one of the categories above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of War, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Mixed Secondary Teacher (Social Studies/Digital Media Communications) position with Department of War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Mixed Secondary Teacher (Social Studies/Digital Media Communications) in the Federal Service.
 I have a Bachelor's degree. The course work must have been completed at or accepted by a regionally accredited U.S. college or university. I have a minimum of 24 semester hours of course work in the field of digital media communications. Course work must include a minimum of 12 semester hours in upper-level digital media content. I also have a minimum of 24 semester hours in social studies. Course work must include at least one course each in U.S. history, world history, political science, and geography. A minimum of 12 upper level semester hours in social studies is required. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted to verify this response.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Mixed Secondary Teacher (Social Studies/Digital Media Communications) in the Federal Service.
 I have at least three (3) years of specialized experience which is experience in a digital media communications center or professional studio workplace.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙