Position Title
AIRPLANE FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12998830-AF-26-185 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 111th ATKW
 AOC 2: NG Employees in the 111th Attack Wing (This includes 270 EIS, 201 RHS Det 1, PA ANG HQ Det 2)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O2 to O5 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility requirements for Dual Status technician positions in this occupation are based on the candidate's possession of Federal Aviation Administration pilot certificates -OR- appropriate military certifications, military ratings in the main-frame military aircraft of employment, and the required competencies (knowledge, skills, and abilities). An applicant must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level. Do you have these required experiences?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 24 months of experience in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facility; or, Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Group. Qualification competencies are determined by three factors: the aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. Experience in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following mainframe/military aircraft: Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Experience in reading and applying mission tasks, intelligence reports, and weather information. Do you have experience in supervising and/or conducting mission planning, mission preparations, filing of flight plans, and conducting crew briefings? Experience in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes, I have.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙