Position Title
Lead Supply Technician - Medical
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12930650-26-QSA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
All applicants must meet one of the following. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


1.
Do you possess one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in the Federal service that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this Lead Supply Technician (Medical) position? Specialized experience includes: distributing supplies and materials, including sterile and non-sterile medical supplies, instrument sets and equipment, to all areas of the facility; scanning, bar-coding, receiving, storing and distribution of supplies and materials; assists in training new employees; maintains current knowledge and answers questions on procedures, policies, etc.; maintains stock by pulling stock, replenishing stock, and maintaining records on stock levels; monitors expiration dates and rotates stock; cleans assigned areas in accordance with aseptic principles; and receives supplies and material into the facility. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Driver's License: A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Technical Competence competency (Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or extensive on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.).


1.
Task: Ensures timely and proper distribution of supplies and materials in assigned areas to include sterile and non-sterile medical supplies, instrument sets, and equipment.
When distributing sterile and non-sterile medical supplies, the Lead Supply Technician must ensure:

 Supplies are distributed based on staff requests, regardless of urgency.
 Supplies are delivered promptly and stored according to established procedures to maintain sterility and accessibility.
 Only restock items when shelves are completely empty.
 Supplies are distributed only during scheduled inventory audits.


2.
Task: Maintains stock levels, returns reusable supplies to the distribution area.
To maintain appropriate stock levels, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Rely solely on automated systems without manual verification.
 Monitor usage trends and restock supplies regularly to prevent shortages.
 Wait for a formal request before restocking any items.
 Only restock items when shelves are completely empty.


3.
Task: Monitors expiration dates, rotating stock to limit outdates and removing items from use required by outdates.
What is the most effective method for managing expiration dates on medical supplies?

 Store newer items in front for easy access.
 Ignore expiration dates if the packaging is intact.
 Implement a first-in, first-out (FIFO) system and routinely check expiration dates.
 Replace expired items only when staff report them.


4.
Task: Receives supplies including unpacking, uncrating from shipping cartons and storing items to ensure sterility and integrity of the supplies and material.
Upon receiving sterile medical supplies, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Inspect packaging for damage, unpack carefully, and store in designated sterile areas.
 Immediately place all items on shelves regardless of condition.
 Store items in any available location to save time.
 Open all packages to verify contents before storage.


5.
Task: Informs personnel on new or changed items and supplies, current medical supply resources and shelf life.
When informing staff about changes in medical supply items, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Mention changes during casual conversations.
 Provide updated information through established communication channels and ensure staff understand changes.
 Assume staff will notice changes on their own.
 Wait for staff to inquire about changes.


The following statements pertain to the Reasoning competency (Identifies rules, principles or relationships that explain facts, data or other information; analyzes information and makes correct inferences or draws accurate conclusions.).


6.
Task: Recommends revisions in stock levels as needed and communicates concerns related to supplies, equipment, procedures, working conditions, etc.
If a frequently used item is consistently running out before the next scheduled restock, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Recommend increasing the stock level and notify appropriate personnel of the issue.
 Ignore the issue unless a formal complaint is received.
 Wait for the supervisor to notice the shortage.
 Remove the item from inventory to prevent further issues.


7.
Task: Reviews completed work to see that instructions on work sequence, procedures, methods and deadlines have been met.
When reviewing completed work, the Lead Supply Technician should prioritize:

 Reviewing work only when errors are reported.
 Delegating review responsibilities to other staff without oversight.
 Ensuring all tasks follow established procedures and meet deadlines.
 Checking only for completion, not accuracy.


8.
Task: Resolves supply management issues including receiving requests, clarifying user requirements, explains delays, expedites deliveries, etc.
A department reports a delay in receiving critical supplies. The Lead Supply Technician should:

 Inform the department that delays are common and suggest patience.
 Clarify the request, explain the delay, and take steps to expedite the delivery.
 Ignore the complaint unless it is repeated.
 Redirect the issue to another department without explanation.


9.
Task: Defines and recognizes problems, collects applicable data and makes recommendations for a solution.
When identifying a recurring issue with supply shortages, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Wait for the issue to resolve itself.
 Order extra supplies without analyzing the cause.
 Analyze usage data, identify patterns, and recommend adjustments to stock levels.
 Notify staff to reduce usage of the affected supplies.


10.
Task: Utilizes knowledge of stock rotation, hazard alerts and recalls to ensure outdated or otherwise compromised supplies and material are removed from usage area.
Upon receiving a hazard alert for a specific supply item, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Mark the item with a warning label but leave it in storage.
 Immediately remove the item from inventory and notify relevant departments.
 Ignore the alert unless someone asks about it.
 Continue using the item until a replacement arrives.


The following statements pertain to the Customer Service competency (Works and communicates with clients and customers (e.g. any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit provides, including individuals who work in your agency or in other agencies or organizations outside the Government) to satisfy their expectations. Committed to quality services.).


11.
Task: Works with clinical and administrative personnel regarding administrative and medical supplies.
When working with clinical staff to address supply needs, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Communicate clearly and ensure supply needs are met in a timely and accurate manner.
 Refer all supply questions to the supervisor.
 Provide general information without verifying accuracy.
 Avoid direct communication and rely on written memos only.


12.
Task: Works with customers and vendors to obtain information regarding clinical supplies.
To obtain accurate information from vendors about clinical supplies, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Wait for vendors to initiate contact.
 Rely on outdated catalogs for product information.
 Communicate directly with vendors to clarify specifications and availability.
 Ask other departments to contact vendors on their behalf.


13.
Task: Coordinates work activities to resolve operating issues pertaining to clinical and administrative supply management requirements.
When coordinating work to resolve supply issues, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Wait for upper management to assign tasks.
 Avoid making decisions without written instructions.
 Collaborate with team members and departments to address supply needs efficiently.
 Focus only on clinical supplies and ignore administrative ones.


14.
Task: Handles conflict and problems in dealing with customers.
When a customer is upset about a delayed supply delivery, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Ignore the complaint and continue with other tasks.
 Tell the customer to contact another department.
 Listen actively, explain the situation, and offer a solution or timeline.
 Avoid discussing the issue to prevent further conflict.


15.
Task: Provides customers with consistent information according to established policies and procedures.
To ensure consistent communication with customers, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Provide information based on personal experience.
 Refer to official policies and procedures when responding to inquiries.
 Offer different answers depending on the situation.
 Avoid giving information unless specifically asked.


The following statements pertain to the Leadership competency (Interacts with others to influence, motivate and challenge them.).


16.
Task: Distributes and balances workload among employees and assures completion of assigned work.
To effectively balance workload among staff, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Assign tasks randomly to avoid favoritism.
 Let employees choose their own tasks.
 Assess individual strengths and workloads to distribute tasks equitably.
 Assign tasks based on seniority alone.


17.
Task: Instructs employees in specific tasks and job techniques and provides written instructions, reference materials and supplies.
When training staff on new supply procedures, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Provide verbal instructions only and expect staff to remember them.
 Offer clear instructions, reference materials, and demonstrate techniques.
 Assume experienced staff do not need training.
 Wait for staff to ask questions before providing guidance.


18.
Task: Conducts on the job training to new employees in accordance with established procedures and practices.
What is the best approach to on-the-job training for new employees?

 Follow established procedures and provide hands-on guidance during tasks.
 Assign a mentor and allow the new employee to observe only.
 Provide a manual and let the employee learn independently.
 Delay training until the employee has worked for several weeks.


19.
Task: Maintains current knowledge and answers questions of other employees on procedures, policies, directives, or other guidelines as necessary.
To support coworkers with procedural questions, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Refer them to external sources without verifying accuracy.
 Provide accurate information based on current policies and guidelines.
 Avoid answering questions to prevent giving incorrect advice.
 Share personal opinions instead of official guidance.


20.
Task: Reports to supervisor on performance, progress and training needs of employees, and on behavior problems or issues.
When reporting on employee performance, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Only report positive feedback to maintain morale.
 Provide objective observations on performance, progress, and any concerns.
 Avoid reporting unless asked directly.
 Focus only on training needs and ignore behavioral issues.


The following statements pertain to the Technology Application competency (Uses machines, tools, or equipment effectively; uses computers and computer applications/systems to analyze and communicate information in the appropriate format.).


21.
Task: Validates accuracy of data in the automated system to maintain long-term stock management.
To ensure accurate long-term stock management, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Regularly verify data entries and correct discrepancies in the automated system.
 Trust the system to self-correct errors over time.
 Only check data when inventory issues arise.
 Review data annually during audits.


22.
Task: Utilizes the automated point of use inventory system (Omnicell or similar), as well as the parent inventory system to monitor issues and receipts in support of stock replenishment processes.
How should the Lead Supply Technician use inventory systems to support stock replenishment?

 Use the system only when manual records are unavailable.
 Monitor issues and receipts regularly using both point-of-use and parent systems.
 Rely on verbal reports from staff for inventory updates.
 Use only one system to avoid confusion.


23.
Task: Enters information using the generic inventory package and validates the data.
When entering supply data into the inventory system, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Skip validation if the system accepts the entry.
 Ensure all entries are accurate and verify data before finalizing.
 Enter data at the end of the month to save time.
 Use estimates when exact figures are unavailable.


24.
Task: Performs daily inventory of primary and secondary inventory points using bar code equipment and following the predetermined schedule.
What is the best practice for conducting daily inventory using bar code equipment?

 Scan only high-value items to save time.
 Follow the predetermined schedule and scan all items at designated inventory points.
 Perform inventory checks weekly instead of daily.
 Rely on memory for inventory counts when scanners are unavailable.


25.
Task: Cleans assigned areas in accordance with aseptic principles as published in infection control guidelines, local SOPs, and Joint Commission standards as scheduled.
To maintain cleanliness in supply areas, the Lead Supply Technician should:

 Clean only when supplies appear visibly dirty.
 Use any available cleaning products regardless of guidelines.
 Follow aseptic principles and clean according to established schedules and standards.
 Delegate cleaning tasks without providing instructions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙