Position Title
Security Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-FLM-13039053 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current employee of the Department of Justice (DOJ)? If you are a current permanent DOJ employee in the competitive service and currently hold a position at the next lower grade, at the same grade, or at a grade higher than this position being advertised, you may qualify to apply as a current agency employee. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, that reflects current employment with the DOJ and career/career-conditional tenure (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND status in the competitive service (Positional Occupied field is 1). You may also be required to submit your most recent performance appraisal, check the announcement to verify documentation requirements.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For each of the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-11, Security Specialist.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level obtained in either the private or public sector and defined as follows. Specialized experience includes performing the following types of duties: identifying physical security vulnerabilities and recommending measures and practices to eliminate real and potential shortfalls or deficiencies; providing input for an organization wide security management plans and/or policies for safeguarding personnel, equipment, property, facilities and information systems; participating in contingency and emergency preparedness planning to continue essential operations during various types of emergency situations; and communicating security requirements and advice to various levels of staff.
 I possess one of the following types of education: a LL.M., if related; OR Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. My education is related and demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. (Please note: Only education in excess of 2 full years is creditable. To calculate your percentage of education, first determine the total number of hours that exceed 36 semester hours or your school definition of two full years of study. Then divide the total number of your excess semester hours by 18 or your schools definition of one year of study. To calculate your percentage of qualifying experience, divide your total number of months of qualifying experience by 12. Now, add the two percentages together. The sum of the percentages must equal at least 100%. For example, if you had 9 months of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9, then you would meet 75% of the required experience. If you had 45 semester hours of creditable graduate level education, then 45-36=9 semester hours. 9 divided by 18 is 50% of the required education, and therefore, 75% + 50% = 125%. You would qualify for this position.)
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-12, Security Specialist.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level obtained in either the private or public sector and defined as follows. Specialized experience includes performing the following types of duties: advising management on all aspects of physical security and emergency preparedness to ensure adequate security is maintained for the organization; developing, implementing, and administering contingency and emergency preparedness planning efforts to continue essential operations and discharge responsibilities during and following emergency situations; administering and monitoring loss prevention programs to protect property and evidence located in the organization; and prepare security incident reports and office security plans.
 I do not have the experience as described in the above statement.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


3.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


You have submitted your answers for the Assessment Questionnaire. If you provided an email address, you will receive a confirmation email upon receipt of the Assessment Questionnaire. Please review the Vacancy Announcement to assure that you have submitted all necessary supporting documents. Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙