Position Title
County Program Analyst
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSACO-13013484-26-NE-HA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have High School Diploma or GED?
 Yes
 No


2.
At the CO-03, you must meet the following criteria in order to qualify for this position:
successful completion of High School with a High School Diploma or GED.
 I meet the requirement of the CO-03.
 I do not meet the requirement of the CO-03.


3.
At the CO-04 , you must meet the following criteria in order to qualify for this position:
successful completion of two years of education above high school in an accredited business, secretarial or technical, junior college, college or university in any field in which high school graduation or the equivalent is a prerequisite or associates degree from such an accredited college or university. OR
At least 3 months of general work experience in support of projects, programs or assignments providing a requisite knowledge of agricultural operations, agricultural management, governmental programs, or related office and customer service functions that indicate the ability to: analyze problems, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions, plan and organize work, resolve conflict, communicate effectively both orally and in writing. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 I meet the experience requirements for the CO-04.
 I meet the educations requirement for the CO-04.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience for the CO-4.
 I do not meet the experience or education requirement of this position.


4.
At the CO-05, you must meet one of the following criteria in order to qualify for this position:
Successful completion of four years of education above high school in an accredited business, secretarial or technical, junior college, college or university in any field in which high school graduation or the equivalent is a prerequisite or bachelor's degree from such an accredited college or university. OR
At least one year of general work experience in support of projects, programs, or assignments providing a requisite knowledge of agricultural operations, agricultural management, governmental programs, or related office and customer service functions that indicate the ability to: analyze problems, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; plan and organize work; resolve conflict; communicate effectively both orally and in writing. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 I meet the experience requirement for the CO-05.
 I meet the education requirement for the CO-05.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience for the CO-5.
 I do not meet the experience or education requirement for this position.


5.
You may start at the CO-07 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
Successful completion of one full year of graduate education from an accredited college or university. OR
Superior Academic Achievement: A bachelor's degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university with either:
grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 based on a 4.0 scale;
3.5 GPA based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study;
class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college;
membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies.
An applicant must submit an unofficial copy of their transcript at the initial phase of the application process demonstrating that they qualify based on superior academic achievement. If selected for the position, an official transcript must be provided from the college or university before the applicant entering on duty. OR
One-year specialized experience equivalent to grade CO-5 or GS-5 level. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, and methods of fact-finding, analysis, and problem-solving techniques as they apply to the analysis, evaluation, and application of agricultural program requirements. In addition, knowledge of and skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to assist in assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural program operations to make recommendations for improvements. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 I meet the experience requirement for the CO-07.
 I meet the education requirement for the CO-07.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience for the CO-7.
 I do not meet the experience or education requirement for this position.


6.
At CO-09, you must meet one of the following criteria in order to qualify for this position:
 
A Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree from an accredited college or university. OR
One-year specialized experience equivalent to at least grade CO-7 or GS-7 in the federal service.   Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of agricultural program policies and practices to independently examine applications, supporting documents, and program reports. In addition, experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to assist in assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural program operations to make recommendations for improvements. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 I meet the experience requirement for the CO-09.
 I meet the education requirement for the CO-09.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience for the CO-9.
 I do not meet the experience or education requirement for this position.


7.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that describe(s) your ability to communicate orally with others by providing and obtaining general information related to FSA farm programs and practices. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have explained farm or commodity program provisions to Farmers or Ranchers (i.e., eligibility requirements and entitlements).
 B. I have held discussions with potential producers to determine which type of service best suited for their needs and helped determine programs for which they may qualify.
 C. I have responded to inquiries from the media, Farmers, Ranchers, agricultural organizations, and/or other government and public interest groups.
 D. I have communicated with office staff to obtain information, clarify regulatory procedures and/or coordinate projects.
 E. I have completed coursework and/or workshops in speech/communications.
 F. None of the Above.


8.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that describe(s) your ability to communicate in writing to a variety of stakeholders (e.g. farmers, ranchers, agricultural organizations, etc.). (Select all that apply)
 A. I have developed correspondence based on eligibility for government or agricultural programs.
 B. I have prepared information for publication on new farm programs, procedures, techniques and/or trends in the agricultural field.
 C. I have composed correspondence of a routine nature.
 D. I have experience drafting professional emails or correspondence in a business setting.
 E. None of the above.


9.
From the descriptions below, choose the option(s) that describe(s) your knowledge of agricultural production practices. (Select all that apply)
 A. I utilize knowledge of typical livestock and crop business practices, (e.g. costs of production, storage and marketing practices, and record keeping, etc.) into a work setting.
 B. I utilize knowledge of agricultural production processes, (e.g. relating to livestock, crop, and/or fruit/vegetable, etc.) into performing my work tasks.
 C. I have knowledge of agricultural production processes.
 D. I have participated in volunteer farming organizations (e.g. 4-H, FFA, etc).
 E. I have participated in an FSA, NRCS, or similar government program intended to support agricultural activities.
 F. None of the above.


10.
From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that describe(s) your ability to independently identify and resolve problems. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have identified problems within my company or agency’s programs or policies and provided actionable solutions to leadership through the appropriate channels.
 B. I have identified problems within my office and worked with my supervisor to resolve the issue.
 C. I have identified problems within my own work process and made appropriate adjustments to work more efficiently or effectively.
 D. I have reviewed applications or records, identified discrepancies, and taken appropriate action to correct errors, obtain missing data, and/or reconcile conflicting information.
 E. I have reviewed documents to determine if materials are complete, legal and in compliance with processing procedures.
 F. None of the above.


11.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that demonstrate(s) your commitment to customer service. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have taken proactive steps to prevent future issues or problems for the customer.
 B. I have corrected customer problems promptly without becoming defensive.
 C. I have been accessible and regularly updated and shared pertinent information with customers.
 D. I have listened to concerns of customers and documented their complaints.
 E. None of the above.


12.
From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that describe(s) your experience responding to new or changing situations. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have adapted my work approach effectively in new situations.
 B. I have helped others adjust to change in the work environment.
 C. I have identified needed process improvements as the result of changing circumstances.
 D. I have been responsible for leading change in a work setting.
 E. None of the above.


13.
From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that describe(s) your ability to work effectively to facilitate the operation of a team. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have facilitated and promoted a team approach to solving problems at work.
 B. I have served as an effective member of a team/group (e.g. by keeping others informed, helping out when others get overwhelmed, sharing useful information, etc.).
 C. I have treated all employees with respect regardless of their position, personality, culture or background.
 D. I have listened to other team members and solicited their input.
 E. None of the above.


14.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙