Position Title
Product Owner
Agency
Railroad Retirement Board
Announcement Number
260017DE-13005220-YA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current RRB employee who meets the definition of "displaced" or "surplus" and have received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Mesa, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Covina, CA
 AG. Oakland, CA
 AH. Roseville, CA
 AI. Denver, CO
 AJ. Washington, DC
 AK. Jacksonville, FL
 AL. Tampa, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Chicago, IL
 AO. Decatur, IL
 AP. Joliet, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Des Moines, IA
 AS. Kansas City, KS
 AT. Wichita, KS
 AU. Louisville, KY
 AV. New Orleans, LA
 AW. Baltimore, MD
 AX. Boston, MA
 AY. Detroit, MI
 AZ. Duluth, MN
 BA. Saint Paul, MN
 BB. Saint Louis, MO
 B. Billings, MT
 C. Omaha, NE
 D. Newark, NJ
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Albany, NY
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. Central Islip, NY
 I. New York, NY
 J. Charlotte, NC
 K. Fargo, ND
 L. Cincinnati, OH
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Portland, OR
 O. Altoona, PA
 P. Harrisburg, PA
 Q. Philadelphia, PA
 R. Pittsburgh, PA
 S. Scranton, PA
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Fort Worth, TX
 V. Houston, TX
 W. Salt Lake City, UT
 X. Richmond, VA
 Y. Roanoke, VA
 Z. Seattle, WA
 AA. Spokane, WA
 AC. Huntington, WV
 AD. Milwaukee, WI


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
This position requires a selective placement factor.

Possession of the selective placement factor is a prerequisite for the position.

Applicants who do not possess the selective placement factor are ineligible for further consideration.

Evidence of the selective placement factor must be reflected in your resume and a copy of your certification MUST BE provided with your supporting documentation.

The selective placement factor for this position is:
A current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner).

Do you have a current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner)?
 Yes, I possess a current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner).
 No, I do not possess a current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner).


2.
Do you possess IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four (4) competencies listed below (your resume must demonstrate this experience)?
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response (A or B) that most closely and accurately describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Product Owner at the GS-14 level.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level or higher in the Federal service. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience is defined as demonstrated experience: 1) Collaborating with stakeholders and business analysts to prioritize and refine the product backlog so that the most valuable and critical features are developed first. 2) Developing and communicating a clear product vision and translating that vision into well-defined requirements, user stories, and acceptance criteria. 3) Drafting and refining user stories and product backlog items into clear, executable tasks for the technical team. 4) Participating in Agile ceremonies and applying Agile methodologies to drive modernization initiatives, iterative development, and continuous process improvement. 5) Defining and executing go-to-production plans and conducting post launch product performance evaluations to identify improvement opportunities, inform future investment decisions, and ensure solutions continued to meet evolving business needs. 6) Providing expert technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to support agency IT decisions by analyzing business requirements, priorities, and constraints, understanding and anticipating client needs, and assessing system impacts.
 I do not have the specialized experience requirement as described in "A" above


4.
Do you possess certification as a Contracting Officer's Representative (FAC-COR), Level 1 or higher? 

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001): my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙