Position Title
Rangeland Management Specialist
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-GVA-Q4-13020302-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 9 location(s).
 G. Redding, CA
 H. San Diego, CA
 K. Willows, CA
 M. Gunnison, CO
 O. Norwood, CO
 R. Livingston, MT
 T. Cloudcroft, NM
 Y. Dickinson, ND
 Z. Watford City, ND
 AA. Ukiah, OR
 AB. Camp Crook, SD
 L. Bayfield, CO
 N. La Junta, CO
 C. Saratoga, WY
 B. Republic, WA
 A. Globe, AZ
 D. Sedona, AZ
 E. Fall River Mills, CA
 F. North Fork, CA
 I. Sierraville, CA
 J. Susanville, CA
 P. Fairfield, ID
 Q. Ketchum, ID
 S. Canjilon, NM
 U. El Rito, NM
 V. Penasco, NM
 W. Questa, NM
 X. Tres Piedras, NM


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience needed to qualify for this position.

Your answers will be verified against the information that you provide in your resume, application, and information provided by your references. 

If you are qualifying based on education or combination of education and experience, transcripts must be attached.


1.
Select the statement that reflects your education for the 0454 series and/or experience. To be minimally qualified for this position, you must possess the required degree or a combination of education and experience.
 I have a degree in range management; or a related discipline that included at least 42 semester hours in a combination of the plant, animal, and soil sciences, and natural resources management, as follows: Range Management - At least 18 semester hours of course work in range management, including courses in such areas as basic principles of range management, range plants, range ecology, range inventories and studies, range improvements, and ranch or rangeland planning. Directly Related Plant, Animal, and Soil Sciences - At least 15 semester hours of directly related courses in the plant, animal, and soil sciences, including at least one course in each of these three scientific areas, i.e., plant, animal, and soil sciences. Courses in such areas as plant taxonomy, plant physiology, plant ecology, animal nutrition, livestock production, and soil morphology or soil classification are acceptable. Related Resource Management Studies - At least 9 semester hours of course work in related resource management subjects, including courses in such areas as wildlife management, watershed management, natural resource or agricultural economics, forestry, agronomy, forages, and outdoor recreation management.
 I have a combination of education and experience in at least 42 semester hours of course work in the combination of plant, animal, and soil sciences and natural resources management shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


2.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Basic Requirements for the Rangeland Management Specialist, GS-0454-09 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level. Qualifying specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: Assisted senior specialists in performing scientific and technical analysis and/or providing technical advice concerning rangeland management topics and/or issues; Assisted in performing recurring, well-defined, and moderately difficult range improvement projects such as preparing allotment management plans, locating, designing, and placing fences, signs, cattle guards, determining stocking and rotation plans and similar projects; Assisted in preparing segments of conventional range use plans under multiple-use sustained yield concepts or developing simple activity plans.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. My graduate work is directly related to the work of the position.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and education. Only graduate education in excess of 18 semester hours may be used to qualify for this grade level. My education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


3.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Basic Requirements for the Rangeland Management Specialist, GS-0454-11 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level. Qualifying specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: Analyzed environmental data and advised on conventional rangeland management monitoring, issues, and projects; Exercised independent judgment to perform recurring, well-defined, and moderately difficult range improvement projects such as preparing segments of land use plans under multiple-use sustained yield concepts, designed, monitored, and implemented plant community changes; Developed and implemented prescribed burns, or other initiatives of comparable scope and complexity; Prepared segments of conventional rangeland use plans under multiple-use sustained yield concepts or assisted in the development of activity plans that included range and watershed improvement.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with coursework that is directly related to the work of this position.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education (beyond what is required for a master’s degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading to a Ph.D.) and specialized experience that is directly related to this position, as described above, that together meets the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


INSTRUCTIONS: For each item below, in your own words, do not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Describe a specific instance from your training and/or experience. Your response must include:
1. The situation or assignment, i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved;
2. The specific actions you took;
3. The outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment;
4. Your position title at the time; and 
5. Provide the name and contact information for someone who can verify each accomplishment.


4.
Describe a specific situation where you applied rangeland management knowledge-such as assessing ecosystem health, conducting a rangeland inventory, monitoring plant community trends, or evaluating grazing impacts-to address a resource issue. What actions did you take, and what was the outcome?


5.
Provide verifier name and contact information


6.
Please explain a situation in which you had to communicate complex rangeland conditions or management recommendations to an audience with varied technical backgrounds-for example, ranchers, community members, or agency partners. How did you ensure your message was clear, accurate, and understood by everyone involved?


7.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


8.
Describe a situation where you planned or evaluated rangeland work, such as developing livestock management strategies, organizing monitoring activities, setting priorities for rangeland improvements, or coordinating with other resource programs. What steps did you take, and what was the outcome?


9.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


10.
Describe a situation where you addressed a disagreement, misunderstanding, or conflict between individuals or groups.


11.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


12.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, and degree.
 A. I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of college.
 B. I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 C. I am/(was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 D. I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g.,M.A. or Ph.D.).
 E. I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 F. None of the above.


13.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙