Position Title
COMMANDER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13084853-AF-27-002
Open Period
Oct 07, 2026 to Nov 05, 2026
0301-14-D1870000-MTNG
.
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1.
What is your current status with the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS : Must have experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems. Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above? ***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experience requirements to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No
3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS : Must have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Must have experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel. * NOTE: Completion of courses such as the Officer Advanced Course, Squadron Officer School, Command and Staff College, Air and Army War College, National Security Management Course and others of comparable level will be credited at the rate of 1 month of education for 2 months of specialized experience IF courses AND dates are clearly stated in your resume. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above? ***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences requirements to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No
4.
Do you meet the AFSC requirement of 11MB3 as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No
5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement? (Immediately promotable O5/Lt Col - O6/Col)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over the military rank listed.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am NOT willing or eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
6.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/transfer/reinstatement?
7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.
