Position Title
GENERAL SUPPLY SPECIALIST (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12488157-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am a prior member or member of another component eligible to become a Texas National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training, BUT I AM willing and eligible to become a Texas National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training, AND I AM NOT willing and eligible to become a Texas National Guard member.


2.
Are you an E-5/(Sgt) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Army National Guard in the rank of E-5/(SGT) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt). Civilians without prior service should respond "No".
 I am a E-5/(SGT) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt).
 No, I am not one of these ranks BUT I am willing and eligible to become a Texas National Guard member in the following ranks E-5/(SGT) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt).
 No, I am not one of these ranks AND I am willing and eligible to become a Texas National Guard member in the following ranks E-5/(SGT) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the MOS qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?
Enlisted MOS: 2S0,2S051,2S071

 Yes
 No


4.
Please type your rank and MOS in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



5.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Supply Specialist, GS-2001-09 position.
 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7). Demonstrated ability researching documents or other resources to coordinate inventory requirements. Knowledge of stock levels, inventory, shipping, receiving, requisitioning and requirements of supplies and equipment. Experience involving the control of supply stocks and accounting for equipment. Knowledge of supply management, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Experience which required person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. Demonstrated experience with cost estimates, budgets, or funding management. Experience conducting extensive and exhaustive searches for required information; reconstruct records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for supply activities.
 I have amaster's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of successfully completed post-high school education and experience that may be used to meet total qualification requirements for the grade level specified.
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements listed above.


6.
Do you currently have a secret security clearance with Positive NAC, or are you able to acquire and maintain a secret security clearance with Positive NAC within the first year of employment?

 I have a secret security clearance with Positive NAC.
 I am eligible to obtain and maintain a secret security clearance with Positive NAC within one year of appointment.
 I am not eligible to obtain a secret security clearance with Positive NAC within one year of appointment.


7.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙