Position Title
Air Interdiction Agent
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AIA 26-8 12942139 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent; AND
You occupy (or have been separated from) a career or career-conditional (tenure group I or II) competitive service position of any agency; OR
You occupy (or have been separated from) an excepted service appointment without time limit, who has been provided by law with both noncompetitive appointment eligibility and selection priority for competitive service position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 Yes
 No


6.
This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
New recruits to the position of Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) receive extensive training before beginning official duties. The statements of understanding below represent some, but not all, of the conditions of employment of the AIA occupation. If you answer no to one or more of the following Conditions of Employment questions, you will be disqualified from further consideration for the AIA position.
I verify and understand that I:
Must have and maintain a valid US driver's license
Will be required to arrest or assist in the arrest of individuals in violation of law(s) and may also be required to testify under oath to the circumstances of the arrest
Will be required enforce all Federal laws without exception regardless of your personal feelings about these laws and regulations
Will be required to qualify with and maintain proficiency in the use of firearms
Must be prepared to defend self and others from physical attacks and may be involved in physical or altercations even the use of lethal weapons while attempting to arrest suspects
Will be required to serve a probationary period
You will be required to successfully complete 15 weeks of Air and Marine Basic Training (AMBT) at the Air and Marine Operations Academy in Glynco, GA. The training is comprised of formalized courses of basic technical instruction necessary to perform the duties of the position, including a swim/water survival course. Additionally, selectee(s) must successfully complete the following training programs: Spanish Language training course; Initial Survival Training course; Aircraft-specific Flight Training course; and Standardized Tactical Aviation Training (STAT) course.Selectee(s) are required to successfully complete 15 weeks of Air and Marine Basic Training (AMBT) at the Air and Marine Operations Academy in Glynco, GA. The training is comprised of formalized courses of basic technical instruction necessary to perform the duties of the position, including a swim/water survival course. Additionally, selectee(s) must successfully complete the following training programs: Spanish Language training course; Initial Survival Training course; Aircraft-specific Flight Training course; and Standardized Tactical Aviation Training (STAT) course.
Subject to mobility at the agency's discretion within and outside the continental U.S. at any time during my tenure with CBP AMO
Am required to wear a prescribed uniform and to comply with established grooming standards
Must be willing and available for work at any time their presence and skills are required. Regular work schedules are: on weekends, evenings and nights, holidays and unscheduled overtime as CBP determines necessary
Must be willing to work with others on a professional basis, with mutual respect, regardless of racial, cultural, religious, political or other differences
May be required to engage in strenuous physical exertion, such as heavy lifting, crouching or crawling in restricted areas, climbing, and running
May be assigned and willing to accept placement to small, remote locations or large metropolitan areas in which there are people whose cultures are significantly different from my own
May be exposed to all kinds of weather and environmental conditions, such as flights of long duration and under unusually stressful conditions, as well as in-flight hazards such as weather, hazardous terrain, physiological andequipment capabilities
Required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug-screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment
I have read the above Conditions of Employment and understand that these conditions are a requirement for appointment to an Air Interdiction Agent position.

I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information provided by me is true, correct, and complete and made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this inquiry may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. False or fraudulent information provided herein is also criminally punishable pursuant to federal law, including 10 U.S.C.1001.
 Yes
 No


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: Due to the strenuous nature of the Air Interdiction Agent duties and the associated training programs, fitness tests have been developed and will be used to screen candidates for entry level AIA positions. Candidates will be required to pass the pre-employment fitness test early in the pre-employment process. To increase the chances of passing the fitness test, engage in regular physical exercise. For more information go to: https://careers.cbp.gov/s/applicant-resources/amo-physical-fitness-test .

I understand that if selected I will be required to meet the fitness requirements and if travel is necessary to complete the fitness screening, I may incur additional expenses.
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable, I am a current CBP Air Interdiction Agent


3.
Individuals in the Air Interdiction Agent position must be medically and physically capable of performing the essential job functions and duties of the position safely and efficiently. Candidates will be required to undergo a pre-employment medical examination and be found medically qualified for the AIA position.

I understand that if I selected I will be required to meet the medical requirements. If travel is necessary to complete the medical screening, I may incur additional expenses. I further understand that if additional medical testing is required after my initial medical appointment that, it will be at my own expense.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


6.
Applicants are highly encouraged to "Opt-in" for text message reminders!
For applicants who receive a tentative selection offer from Customs and Border Protection, the CBP Hiring Center is offering text messaging reminders. This service will provide you with helpful reminders of scheduled appointments as you move through the pre-employment process. All automated messages are programmed to remind applicants of upcoming appointments (i.e., medical appointment, fitness test reminder, etc.) approximately 3-days out from the appointment dates. Text messaging will not replace any form of official communication, but is intended solely as an added service to reinforce communication.

You may choose to "Opt-in" for this customer service option. Based on conditions set by your mobile carrier, standard text messaging rates may apply which will not be reimbursed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Please check with your carrier to address any potential costs to you to ensure receiving text messaging is an option available to you based on the terms of your service contract. Some carriers may also block incoming "fee generating" text messages or messages from outlying sources and some messages may appear truncated based on limitations imposed by your carrier. Current system constraints with some carriers may not support text messaging service. If you choose to opt-in at this time, you may elect to discontinue this service later by contacting the CBP Hiring Center.

Please select your carrier below. If you do not wish to "Opt In" for text messaging reminders, please choose the last option.
AT&T [0002]
Boost Mobile [0003]
Cricket Wireless [0004]
Sprint [0006]
T-Mobile [0007]
Verizon [0008]
Virgin Mobile USA [0009]
Cellular South [0012]
Centennial Wireless [0013]
Qwest [0015]
Simple Mobile [0016]
TracFone [0017]
Other [0010]
I do NOT opt in to receive text messaging reminders


7.
If you opted in for text messaging reminders, please add you cell phone number below in this format: xxx-xxx-xxxx

If you did not opt in for text messaging reminders, please enter N/A below.


8.
Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. NOTE: The Commissioner of CBP has approved a temporary increase in the maximum allowable age to 40 for original placement into a law enforcement position. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.

Will you be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes
 No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement
 Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312
 No, I will not be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.


9.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


10.
Applicants who receive a tentative offer of employment must successfully complete a polygraph examination. Provided below is a list of locations where polygraph examinations are offered. Please select the location where you prefer to complete your polygraph examination. CBP will do its best to schedule you at your preferred location. However, you may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. CBP will not reimburse you for travel to or from the polygraph site. You will be contacted by the Office of Professional Responsibility to schedule the required polygraph examination.
AZ: Tucson [1001]
AZ: Yuma [1002]
CA: Aliso Viejo (LA/SD) [1004]
CA: San Diego [1003]
CA: San Francisco [1006]
FL: Miramar [1010]
FL: Orlando [1011]
GA: Atlanta (Kennesaw) [1040]
IL: Chicago [1013]
IN: Indianapolis [1014]
ME: Portland [1035]
MI: Detroit [1015]
MN: Bloomington (Mpls/St Paul) [1016]
NJ: Newark [1017]
NY: Buffalo [1018]
NY: Valley Stream [1019]
PR: San Juan [1038]
TN: Nashville [1048]
TX: El Paso [1021]
TX: Houston [1022]
TX: Irving (Dallas/Ft Worth) [1023]
TX: McAllen [1025]
TX: San Antonio [1046]
WA: Seattle [1007]
Washington, DC [1008]


11.
Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the United States Military in good standing (to include the National Guard, Reserves, or Coast Guard) or have you been discharged under honorable conditions?
 Yes
 No


13.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


14.
When U.S. Customs and Border Protection completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 A. I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 B. I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following questions determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. You may wish to consult with an AMO recruiter for a description of those requirements.


The question below is a screen out, failure to meet the requirement will remove you from consideration.


1.
I have a FAA Commercial or ATP pilot certificate.
 Dual rated pilot, fixed and rotary-wing, with instrument (Please Mark your preferred aircraft for the assessment in following question) (or Military equivalent).
 Rotorcraft Helicopter rated, with instrument (or Military equivalent).
 Airplane, with instrument (or Military equivalent).
 I do not possess any of the above-described certificates or ratings.


2.
Select preferred aircraft type you would like to take your flight assessment with.
 Rotorcraft Helicopter
 Airplane


3.
Please provide the date of your pilot certificate.


4.
Please provide pilot certificate number.


5.
Select one of the following statements that best describes your medical certificate (must be dated within the last 12 months).
 Current FAA Class 1
 Current FAA Class 2
 Military medical flight certificate
 Have none of the above.


6.
Please provide the date of your FAA Medical or Military medical flight certificates. *FAA Medicals must be dated within the last 12 months to be considered valid, and you will be required to have a FAA Class 2 medical at the time of your flight assessment.


7.
Select the statement that best describes your experience for the GS-11 grade level.
 I have been employed as a full-time professional pilot or possess aviation law enforcement experience for a minimum of 1 year.
 I have been employed as a part-time professional pilot or possess aviation law enforcement experience for a minimum of 2 years (if answered yes to this question, please go to below question to indicate number of hours worked per week).
 I do not possess the experience described above.


8.
If you have been a part-time professional pilot for a minimum of 2 years, please indicate number of hours worked per week.


9.
I have logbook records showing a total of (select only one):
 1,500 Flight hours or more
 1,000 Flight hours to 1,499 Flight hours (you must complete the flight hour waiver questions 16 - 22)
 750 Flight hours to 999 Flight hours (you must complete the flight hour waiver questions 16 - 22). I understand that I must accrue additional flight hours up to the waived minimum at my own expense.
 1 Flight hour to 749 Flight hours
 I do not possess any of the flight hours described above.


10.
Verify your total flight hours


11.
I have logbook records showing a minimum of 250 Pilot-in-Command (PIC) flight hours, 75 instrument hours (actual and/or simulated/hood), and 75 night hours.
 Yes
 No


12.
Enter your total Pilot-in-Command Hours


13.
Enter your Instrument Hours


14.
Enter your Night Hours


Request for Flight Hour Waiver - If you have under 1,500 flight hours, please answer the following 7 questions.


15.
Please certify the number of flight hours as a flight instructor in complex aircraft.


16.
Please certify the number of flight hours flying a multi-engine aircraft.


17.
Please certify the number of flight hours flying with night vision devices.


18.
I certify that I have flown in areas the U.S. Government has considered imminent danger zones/combat zones. (Example: Pilot for the army flying helicopter in Afghanistan.)
 Yes
 No


19.
If you are flying or have flown other UAS Aircraft. List all the UAS Aircraft's flown with the total flight hours for each UAS Aircraft (eg: Predator A MQ-1 - 500 Flight hours).


20.
If you have flown UAS (Predator A MQ-1, Predator B MQ-9, Global Hawk RQ-4) Aircraft, please enter the number of your flight hours.


21.
I certify that I have experience flying over difficult/dangerous terrain and/or over water.
 Yes
 No


22.
I have flown 100 flight hours in the last 12 months. (This qualification requirement is currently being waived by OPM through August 4, 2024)
 Yes
 No


23.
I certify that I have the experience of flying as a Pilot-in-Command (PIC) or sole manipulator in an airplane or helicopter, in all environments of flight, including night, poor weather, unfavorable terrain and low altitudes or airspeeds.
 Yes
 No


24.
I acknowledge that I will have to submit a current FAA Commercial or ATP pilot certificate, FAA Medical Class 2, and Flight Logs before attending my Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) 3-part assessment.
 Yes
 No


Please answer the following questions in relationship to Air and Marine Operations (AMO) Re-competition Rules for Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) candidates that AMO recruits and hires the highest quality applicants. AMO's Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) Assessment is 3 parts and includes the written exam, practical exercise, and structured interview.


25.
Have you taken and successfully passed all parts of the Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) 3-part assessment in the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


26.
Have you taken and successfully passed all parts of the Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) 3-part assessment in the last 5 years but previously declined an offer for placement into an AIr Interdiction Agent (AIA) position with Air and Marine Operations (AMO)?
 Yes - By selecting "yes", I acknowledge that I understand that I must retake all parts of the 3-part assessment.
 No


27.
Have you failed any part of the Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) 3-part assessment more than once within the last two years?
 Yes- By selecting "yes", I acknowledge that I must wait 2 years from the date of my last failed assessment before becoming eligible for retesting.
 No - I have not failed any part of the Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) 3-part assessment on my SECOND attempt within the last 6 months.
 No - I have not taken the Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) 3-part assessment in the last two years.


28.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


29.
Have you ever been previously employed by Air and Marine Operations (AMO)?
 Yes
 No


30.
Have you ever applied to the Air Interdiction Agent (AIA) position before?
 Yes
 No


31.
Available to enter on duty. (Month/Date/Year)


32.
Are you active duty who will retire with a rank of Major (O-4) or higher? If you answer yes to this question, upload a Veterans Affairs letter reflecting your level of disability (0%-100%) for preference eligibility. Retirees at or above the rank of major (or equivalent) get preference if they are disabled veterans as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108(2). If you are still on active duty and expect to have a disability rating issued by the VA, please ensure that your Statement of Service (SOS) documents state that you are working with the VA and expecting a disability rating.
 Yes
 No


33.
Are you a retired veteran with a rank of Major (O-4) or higher? If you answer yes to this question, upload a Veterans Affairs letter reflecting your level of disability (0%-100%) for preference eligibility. Retirees at or above the rank of major (or equivalent) get preference if they are disabled veterans as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108(2).
 Yes
 No


34.
I have served or currently serve as a member of the U.S. Armed Forces. If yes was selected, please upload a scanned Member 2 or Member 4 copy of your DD214 and/or if active duty, a Statement of Service (SOS) indicating your dates of service, your rank, medals you have been awarded and confirmation that you will be separated under honorable conditions.
 Yes
 No


35.
If you are a male born after December 1, 1959 and are at least 18 years of age or older, civil service employment law (5.U.S.C. 3328) requires that you must register with the Selective Service system unless you meet certain exceptions. Have you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable, I am female or meet other exceptions where I do not need to register


36.
As an employee of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), you will be joining a workforce that is dedicated to accomplishing our mission while maintaining the trust of our Nation by strictly adhering to all government ethics standards. Your conduct will be subject to the ethics rules applicable to all Executive Branch employees, and to CBP employees specifically, as well as the criminal conflict of interest statutes. Once you enter on duty, these rules include obtaining approval for outside employment or business activity, to ensure such employment or business activity is not prohibited and does not interfere or conflict with performance of your official duties. (Section 4601.104 of the Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of DHS, 5 C.F.R. § 4601.104, provides, in relevant part, as follows: (a) Prohibitions on outside employment and activities. (1) No CBP employee shall be employed by or engage in activities in support of or on behalf of a[n] customs broker; international carrier; bonded warehouse; foreign trade zone..; cartman; law firm engaged in the practice of customs, immigration, or agriculture law; entity engaged in the enforcement of customs, immigration or agriculture law; importation or exportation department of a business; or business or other entity which engages in services related to agriculture matters where such agriculture matters relate to CBP's mission.) (please initial in answer box)


37.
The Air Interdiction Agent position requires the successful completion of the following pre-employment requirements:
Polygraph examination
Background investigation
Drug test
Fitness examination
Medical examination
If you are not willing to complete these requirements then the agency recommends you exit the online job application and not proceed further.

Are you willing to complete the above pre-employment requirements?

 Yes
 No


The Anti-Border Corruption Act of 2010 requires all job applicants for law enforcement positions at U.S. Customs & Border Protection to receive a polygraph examination and a background investigation before being offered employment. Please read the following questions and answers carefully!


38.
Are you willing to undergo a polygraph examination for this position?

 Yes, I am willing to take a polygraph examination
 No, I am not willing to take a polygraph examination
 Not applicable, I am a current CBP Law Enforcement Officer (i.e., BPA, CBPO, AIA or MIA)


39.
Have you taken and FAILED a Customs and Border Protection polygraph examination within the last two years?
 No, I have NOT FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
 Yes, I have failed a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years


PENALTIES FOR INACCURATE OR FALSE STATEMENTS: The U.S. Criminal Code (Title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally fire, do not grant a security clearance to, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms. Such actions remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely.


40.
Are you willing to undergo a background investigation for this position?

 Yes, I am willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
 No, I am not willing to undergo a background investigation for this position


FIREARM REQUIREMENT: This position requires that the incumbent meet initial and continuing qualifications in the use of firearms as outlined in the Gun Control Act of 1968, amended by the Lautenberg Amendment of 1996. An applicant whose background includes any of the following will be ineligible for consideration: 1) convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding one year; 2) has any outstanding warrants or is a fugitive from justice; 3) unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance; 4) adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to a mental institution; 5) illegally or unlawfully in the United States; 6) renounced U. S. citizenship; 7) subject to a court-ordered restraining (protection) order from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner (spouse, former spouse, parent of applicant's child, individual who cohabitates or has cohabitated with the applicant), or child; or 8) convicted under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child.


41.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?

 Yes
 No


42.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?

 Yes
 No


43.
Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year?

 No, I have never been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
 Yes, I have been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year


44.
Have you ever lost your right to possess a firearm for any reason under Federal law?
 No, I have never lost my right to possess a firearm
 Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm, but my right has been fully restored under Federal law
 Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm and my right has NOT been fully restored under Federal law


45.
Prior to your 18th birthday did you enter the U.S. illegally and subsequently initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18?

 Yes, I initiated action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally but DID NOT initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 Not applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. PRIOR to my 18th birthday.


46.
After the age of 18, did you ever enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S. without legal immigration status?

 No, I did not enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 Not Applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. illegally after my 18th birthday


47.
Have you ever been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18?

 No, I have never been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18
 Yes, I have been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18


48.
Are you currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.?

 No, I am not currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
 Yes, I am currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.


49.
Did you knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status?

 No, I did not knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
 Yes, I did knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status


50.
Did you knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status?

 No, I did not knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
 Yes, I did knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status


51.
Have you ever intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)?

 No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)
 Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)


52.
Have you ever kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will?

 No, I have not kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
 Yes, I have kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will


53.
Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value?

 No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
 Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value


54.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997?

 No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
 Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997


55.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?

 No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
 Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity


56.
Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed marijuana/THC, anabolic steroids, prescription drugs, or inhalants? Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation *
 Never
 Yes and I understand that I will be required to provide detailed information regarding this, and it will be taken into consideration during my background investigation


57.
Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed other Schedule I-V controlled substance (those not listed in previous question)? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (e.g, rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (e.g, LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (e.g., special K, jet, etc.), narcotics (e.g., opium, heroin, etc.), stimulants (e.g., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.), or inhalants (e.g., toluene, amyl nitrate, whippets, etc.). Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation.
 Never
 0 - 3 Years ago
 3 - 7 Years ago
 7 or More years ago


58.
Are you a current law enforcement officer who is currently under investigation for a use-of-force incident?
 No, I am not a current law enforcement officer currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
 Yes, I am currently holding a law enforcement position and am currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.


59.
Have you ever been terminated from a law enforcement position because you were found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident?
 No, I have not been terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
 Yes, I was terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.


60.
Have you ever deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography after the age of 18 (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18)?
 No, I have never deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
 Yes, I have deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).


61.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection has a residency requirement that applies to all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years before completing an application for CBP employment. Primary residence is defined as the place where an individual physically resides and the place from which he or she commutes to an official duty station. An individual may have more than one residence (including but not limited to a second home, a vacation home, or an investment property), but can establish only one primary residence. If hired for this position, you will be required to maintain your primary residence in the United States.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two (2) of the last five (5) years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency waiver by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military; or
A dependent of a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. Government; or
Working as a contractor employee, a volunteer, a consultant or an intern for the U.S. Government, or
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university

If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception to the residency requirement.

Do you meet the U.S. Customs and Border Protection residency requirement?

 Yes, I have lived in the United States (or one of its territories or protectorates) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application.
 Yes, for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application, I have maintained United States residency by one or more of the following conditions: 1) worked for the U.S. Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or military capacity or 2) was a dependent of a U.S. Federal or military employee serving overseas.
 No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am therefore requesting an exception to the policy and I can provide documentation of my eligibility for a residency waiver from a stateside-based company, school, and/or individual(s) who will account for any periods of my residency outside of the United States during at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application.
 No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am NOT requesting a waiver for an exception to the residency requirement and I understand that I will not be considered for this job announcement


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙