Position Title
MWR Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Director)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13003035 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an MWR Recreation Specialist Fitness Director. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All education and experience stated in these answers must be reflected in resume and/or transcripts.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0188 Recreation Specialist Series?
 I have a four year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education.
 I have at least four (4) years of appropriate experience that demonstrates the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 I have no experience with the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

IAW DoDI 1015.10, per DoD MWR Fitness Standards, do you have a four-year degree in exercise science or a related field? Transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application. 

 Yes
 No


3.

IAW DoDI 1015.10, per DoD MWR Fitness Sandards, do you have a professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization? Unexpired certificate(s) must be provided with application. 

 Yes
 No


4.

IAW DoDI 1015.10, per DoD MWR Fitness Standards, do you have at least three years of experience in the fitness industry? 

 Yes
 No


5.

Do you have CPR, First Aid, AED, Bloodborne Pathogen and/or Navy Basic Fitness certification(s). It is recommended to provide any of the unexpired certifications you already have with your application.  

 Yes
 No


6.

Please choose the response below that best describes your experience with total fitness facility oversight including ooeration, programming and staffing. 
 

 I am currently a Fitness Director in a Navy or other DoW MWR operation.
 My previous position was as a Fitness Director in a Navy or other DoW MWR operation.
 I am currently or was previously a Fitness Director within commercial/private sector fitness agency/organization.
 I have never held a Fitness Director position.


7.

Please choose the response below that best describes your supervisory experience with planning work, scheduling employees and training employees.




 

 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have 3-5 years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation
 I have 1-3 years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have no supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙