Position Title
Supervisory Information Technology Specialist (Customer Support)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
EUS-26-SAI-12839751 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Friday, December 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Fort Wayne, IN
 C. Marion, IN
 D. Battle Creek, MI
 E. Saginaw County, MI
 F. Fargo, ND
 G. Charleston, SC
 H. Fort Meade, SD



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-In-Grade: This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. For the GS-12 grade level, you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade, GS-11. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet. (Please review all options before selecting a response)


1.
Select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level.
 The time-in-grade requirement does not apply to me (e.g. I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or I am seeking a non-competitive appointment such as VRA, Schedule A, or 30% or more disabled veteran appointment).
 I am a current federal employee, but I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement as specified above.


2.
Are you currently or have previously held a permanent Career or Career Conditional position in the Federal Government in the Competitive Service equivalent to the full performance level of the grade of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

- career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
- status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).

 Yes
 No


Basic Individual Occupational Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Supervisor IT Specialist (Customer Support) , GS-2210-12. For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.

- Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
- Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
- Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
- Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


3.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level. Specialized experience for this position is possess IT experience and have detailed background with extensive experience in operations supervision, and management of IT delivery systems and equipment.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 in Federal service.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you have experience in supervising employees?
 I have no experience in supervising staff
 I have experience supervising 1-5 employees
 I have experience supervising 6 or more employees


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have experience in supervising staff and equipment in remote locations?
 Yes
 No


3.
Continuous vulnerability management is a process of _____________ weak points in an IT environment.
 Identifying, prioritizing, documenting, and remediating
 Identifying, documenting, and reporting
 Identifying and monitoring
 None of the above


4.
Network security management involves protecting the network from unauthorized access and cyber threats. It can be achieved through the use of ____________. (Select all that apply)
 A. Firewalls
 B. Encryption
 C. Authentication
 D. None of the above


5.
Conflict Resolution is a process of addressing and resolving disputes or disagreements and involves finding mutually acceptable solutions and fostering open communication. True or False?
 True
 False


6.
Business Partner Relationship Management is the process of managing and developing relationships with business partners. True or False?
 True
 False


7.
I have performed the following leadership functions in work units, team assignments, or programs that I have led, managed, or were assigned senior responsibility. (select all that apply)
 A. Determined customer expectations and planned the scope, content, and schedule.
 B. Set goals, milestones, expectations, and established work schedules and worksite assignments.
 C. Developed, defended, updated, and executed program/project budgets.
 D. Planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members.
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 F. None of the above.


8.
I have experience managing complex projects/project management.
 I have managed 5 or more complex projects
 I have managed less than 5 complex projects
 I have been involved with complex projects, but did not have a managerial role
 I have not been involved or managed complex projects


9.
Effective communication, includes which of the following principles (select all that apply)
 A. Clarity
 B. Completeness
 C. Conciseness
 D. Consideration
 E. Correctness
 F. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
Psychological Safety is an important part of increasing innovation and creativity in your teams because it allows team members to be able to speak up, take risks, and make mistakes without fear of negative consequences. True or False?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙