Position Title
Clinical Psychologist (Specialty Program Coordinator - Challenge)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
MXR-26-13038778 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


7.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


8.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


9.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


10.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


11.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.



1.
Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above?
 Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.
 No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Selective Factor:

Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia.
Do you meet the selective factor for this position?
 Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist.
 No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.

You are the newly assigned Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator at a federal correctional facility. The treatment program has experienced inconsistent delivery of cognitive-behavioral interventions, and several inmates with co-occurring mental illness and substance abuse disorders have shown minimal progress. Staff members have expressed uncertainty about how to effectively address criminal thinking patterns in group sessions. You need to restructure the program to ensure evidence-based treatment delivery while maintaining appropriate oversight of clinical services.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate program oversight approach in this situation?

 Review the current treatment protocols with staff, provide guidance on basic cognitive-behavioral concepts, and schedule weekly check-ins to monitor their implementation of group therapy sessions with the general inmate population.
 Establish a comprehensive supervision structure where you independently maintain a caseload of inmates with co-occurring disorders, develop and implement individualized treatment plans using cognitive-behavioral interventions, facilitate both individual and group sessions within the in-patient treatment program, and provide direct clinical supervision to master's level clinicians delivering services to offenders with antisocial attitudes, substance abuse, and mental illness.
 Conduct a literature review on evidence-based practices for dual diagnosis populations, create a treatment manual based on cognitive-behavioral principles, and co-facilitate several group sessions with staff members to model appropriate therapeutic techniques in the community mental health setting.
 Organize training sessions on cognitive-behavioral therapy basics for all clinical staff, develop standardized intake procedures for offenders entering the program, and maintain a caseload of clients in an outpatient setting where you provide individual therapy using cognitive-behavioral interventions.
 None of the above.


2.

An inmate in your specialty treatment program has been displaying increased resistance during individual sessions and is negatively influencing other group members with antisocial attitudes. The inmate has co-occurring diagnoses of major depressive disorder and substance use disorder, along with a history of criminal thinking patterns. Several other program participants have begun questioning the value of treatment after this inmate's disruptive comments during the last two process group sessions. You need to address both the individual's treatment needs and the group dynamics.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate psychotherapy approach in this situation?

 Co-facilitate a cognitive-behavioral group treatment session with another clinician focusing on substance abuse issues, provide individual psychotherapy sessions addressing the inmate's antisocial attitudes, and coordinate with staff to monitor the inmate's behavior during court-ordered treatment requirements.
 Assist with co-facilitating the next group psychotherapy session to observe the inmate's interactions, provide treatment interventions during individual sessions addressing the substance abuse diagnosis, and coordinate with the treatment team to develop appropriate responses to the disruptive behavior in the group setting.
 Develop an individualized treatment plan that addresses both the major mental illness and substance abuse diagnoses, facilitate individual psychotherapy sessions using cognitive-behavioral interventions to address the underlying issues and criminal thinking patterns, and conduct separate cognitive-behavioral group psychotherapy sessions in the detention setting to address the disruption and reinforce program expectations with all participants.
 Schedule individual counseling sessions with the inmate to discuss program rules and expectations, document the disruptive behavior for the treatment file, co-facilitate the next group therapy session with a supervisor present, and refer the inmate to specialized services for anger management.
 None of the above.


3.

You are conducting quarterly assessments for inmates enrolled in your specialty treatment program. An offender who has been in the program for three months is being evaluated for continued placement and treatment plan modifications. This individual has a history of antisocial personality features, polysubstance abuse, and previous violent offenses. You need to conduct a comprehensive psychological assessment to determine current risk levels, treatment progress, criminal thinking patterns, and appropriate intervention strategies moving forward. Your assessment results will directly impact the inmate's treatment plan and program placement recommendations.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate psychological assessment approach in this situation?

 Conduct an initial interview and screening to gather information about the inmate's substance abuse history, complete a psychosocial history documenting the mental health and drug abuse background, administer and interpret the MMPI and SASSI to assess current functioning, and prepare a report with recommendations for the dual diagnosis treatment program.
 Administer and interpret a criminal thinking inventory to assess current cognitive patterns, conduct a mental status examination to evaluate psychological functioning, complete the PCL-R to assess psychopathy features, and prepare a brief report documenting the assessment results for the treatment team's review.
 Conduct comprehensive psychological assessments on a monthly basis including administration and interpretation of multiple personality tests such as the PAI and MCMI, administer and interpret criminal thinking inventories including the PICTS, complete the PCL-R for psychopathy assessment and HCR-20 for violence risk, and prepare detailed reports based on interpreted assessment results that include diagnostic formulations and treatment recommendations specific to this adult offender in the correctional setting, with particular attention to treatment planning for the formal treatment program enrollment.
 Review the inmate's institutional file and previous psychological reports, conduct a clinical interview focusing on program participation and behavioral observations, administer the ASI to assess substance abuse severity, and prepare a brief progress report with general recommendations for continued treatment services.
 None of the above.


4.

During a group therapy session in your specialty treatment program, one of the inmates suddenly becomes agitated after another participant makes a comment about his criminal history. The agitated inmate stands up abruptly, his fists clenched, and begins verbally threatening the other inmate with increasingly hostile language. The tension in the room escalates rapidly, with other group members becoming visibly anxious and moving away from the confrontation. Two inmates appear ready to physically intervene, which could lead to a major incident. Security staff have not yet arrived, and you need to take immediate action to prevent violence and ensure the safety of all participants.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate crisis intervention approach in this situation?

 Immediately contact security staff via radio to report the incident, assist your clinical supervisor or available peers in separating the two inmates involved in the conflict, move other group members to a safe area of the room, and collaborate with security personnel once they arrive to manage the disruptive inmates and restore order to the treatment area.
 Call for a break in the group session, document the incident in your clinical notes, use your clinical skills to speak with the agitated inmate about appropriate behavior expectations, conduct crisis intervention with the inmate who has severe adjustment problems after the situation calms down, and coordinate with non-clinical staff to develop a management plan for future disruptive behavior.
 Immediately use a firm, calm voice to direct the agitated inmate's attention to you, employ evidence-based crisis intervention techniques to de-escalate the situation by acknowledging his emotional state while setting clear behavioral boundaries, physically position yourself to maintain safety while preventing escalation, use your clinical training to calm the emotionally distraught inmate through verbal intervention strategies, redirect other group members to remain seated and calm, successfully defuse the threatening situation before it becomes physical, and once the immediate crisis is resolved, process the incident therapeutically with the group while security staff are on standby.
 Signal to correctional officers nearby for backup support, use clinical skills to manage both disruptive inmates by firmly directing them to opposite sides of the room, speak calmly to the agitated inmate about the consequences of violent behavior in the institution, conduct individual crisis counseling with the threatened inmate, and train the group members on how to respond if similar altercations occur in future sessions.
 None of the above.


5.

Your institution's administration has asked you to enhance the specialty treatment program's effectiveness for inmates with antisocial personality features and co-occurring substance use disorders. Recent recidivism data suggests that program graduates are re-offending at rates higher than expected. You need to evaluate the current program structure, identify evidence-based modifications that could improve outcomes, and present recommendations to leadership. The administration expects your recommendations to be grounded in current research and proven effective with similar correctional populations.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate research application approach in this situation?

 Maintain your working knowledge of the literature related to interventions for offenders by reviewing recent publications on criminal thinking patterns, instruct other treatment staff on evidence-based approaches to treating antisocial attitudes, teach educational workshops to clinical staff on mental illness and substance abuse interventions that have been demonstrated effective in correctional settings, and thoroughly review current research to interpret how it applies to your institution's population.
 Review and evaluate the available literature on cognitive-behavioral interventions for offenders with antisocial features and substance abuse to determine the most appropriate treatment modifications, conduct a focused literature review on recidivism reduction strategies specific to correctional treatment programs, review research findings to prepare an updated treatment protocol that addresses the identified gaps in your current program, and utilize available research to develop a comprehensive strategy for managing high-risk inmates within your specialty program.
 Participate as an active member of a research team conducting a program outcome evaluation study designed to investigate the effectiveness of your specialty treatment program in reducing recidivism among offenders with antisocial personality features and substance use disorders, assist with systematic data collection and analysis on criminality and adjustment to incarceration outcomes, collaborate on a research project examining the specific factors that predict treatment success in your population, and prepare a comprehensive written literature review synthesizing current research on evidence-based practices for antisocial offenders that will guide treatment program development and modification decisions.
 Review several recent journal articles on correctional treatment outcomes, consult with colleagues at other institutions about their program structures, compile existing research summaries on antisocial personality disorder and substance abuse treatment, and present a general overview of evidence-based practices to administration with suggestions for potential program improvements based on common practices in the field.
 None of the above.


6.

You supervise three master's level clinicians and two doctoral-level psychology interns in your specialty treatment program. One of your master's level clinicians has been struggling with case conceptualization for complex offenders with co-occurring disorders and has submitted several psychological reports that lack sufficient clinical depth and appropriate treatment recommendations. A psychology intern has shown strong clinical skills but needs guidance on the unique aspects of delivering cognitive-behavioral interventions in a correctional environment. Your other staff members are performing adequately but could benefit from advanced training in evidence-based assessment and treatment methods specific to criminal thinking patterns and antisocial behaviors.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervision and staff development approach in this situation?

 Provide guidance and assistance to your subordinates in performing their job functions by monitoring them to determine if they are following proper procedures, assist staff in completing their clinical reports within assigned deadlines, provide advice and guidance to all team members on work-related issues as they arise, and assist in developing and presenting a training session focused on the professional growth and development of your clinical staff.
 Advise your clinical team members in the assessment, treatment, and management of the mentally ill offender population by assisting with providing clinical training on case conceptualization and report writing, co-mentor the psychology intern and struggling clinician on best practices in correctional treatment, and review the clinical work of your team members to ensure compliance with institutional policy standards and evidence-based practice guidelines.
 Supervise your subordinate clinical staff in the assessment, treatment, and management of the offender population within the correctional setting by providing comprehensive clinical training on cognitive-behavioral interventions for offenders with co-occurring disorders, formally mentor the new psychology intern in the specialized requirements of correctional treatment program delivery, conduct weekly individual supervision sessions with the struggling master's level clinician that include detailed review and approval of psychological reports with specific feedback on case conceptualization and treatment planning, review and formally approve all clinical reports produced by subordinate clinical staff to ensure quality and adherence to professional standards, and develop an ongoing professional development curriculum that enhances all staff members' expertise in evidence-based assessment and treatment of antisocial behaviors and criminal thinking patterns.
 Schedule monthly team meetings to discuss challenging cases and share clinical perspectives, recommend that the struggling clinician seek additional consultation from senior staff, provide the psychology intern with reading materials on correctional psychology, review submitted reports for basic compliance with formatting requirements, and encourage all staff to pursue continuing education opportunities related to forensic psychology and correctional treatment.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙