Position Title
Permits Assistant
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13080388-DE
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements: This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and You have not yet been separated.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. If yes , please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements: This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Anchorage, AK
 Juneau, AK
2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 3
 4
Merit Hiring Plan
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Min Quals
1.
Select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Permits Assistant, ZS-0303-3 or equivalent grade level (GS-5) in the Federal service.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZS-2) or GS-04 level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in providing online and live customer support services responding to requests for information on policies, programs, services or products; and Assisting in maintaining and organizing office files and records.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor’s degree with courses related to the work of this occupation. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
2.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of Permits Assistant, ZS-0303-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZS-3) or GS-06 level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in administrative processes such as issuing licenses, registrations, certifications or other similar types of documentation; Providing online and live customer support services responding to inquiries, resolving problems and providing regulatory guidance; and Performing records management activities including organization, quality control of documents and disposition of records.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
JKT
1.
When handling official records that contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII) or Business Identifiable Information (BII), what is the primary responsibility of the employee?
 To share the information with anyone who requests it.
 To ensure compliance with legal standards and office policies regarding confidentiality.
 To dispose of all records immediately after entry.
 To store the information on a personal device for quick access.
2.
What is the expected level of supervision for this entry-level application processing role?
 The incumbent works entirely without oversight.
 The incumbent performs routine functions with technical oversight from higher-level staff.
 The incumbent oversees the work of higher-level specialists.
 The incumbent is only reviewed if a customer complains.
3.
When handling landing data or confidential fisheries allocation data, which of the following is true?
 You should use appropriate care to ensure compliance with data confidentiality statutes.
 You can share this data with the public upon request to be helpful.
 The data is not considered confidential.
 You only need to protect the data if your supervisor is watching.
4.
Which of the following is a key daily data-related task for this position?
 Writing new software code for the agency.
 Performing data entry of application information into the Alaska Region system.
 Developing new federal regulations for fisheries.
 Auditing the IT department's budget.
5.
Which type of sensitive information are you required to handle with care in this position?
 Personal email passwords of coworkers.
 Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Business Identifiable Information (BII).
 Employee social media activity logs.
 Private vacation schedules of senior staff.
6.
What is a routine duty involving interaction with other staff?
 Providing training to lower-level employees on processing routine applications.
 Reviewing the salaries of coworkers.
 Assigning new job duties to senior managers.
 Approving all budget requests for the region.
7.
Which of the following is a key component of the customer service responsibilities for this position?
 Responding to questions concerning application procedures and requirements.
 Reviewing the salaries of coworkers.
 Assigning new job duties to senior managers.
 Approving all budget requests for the region.
8.
What is the primary purpose of the "call center type system" mentioned in the position description?
 To track the personal calls of employees.
 To provide routine regulatory and permit application information to the public.
 To handle emergency medical situations for fishermen.
 To sell fishing gear to subsistence fishermen.
9.
What is the primary method for providing customer service in this role?
 Sending out mass social media updates.
 Answering questions via a call center-type system during business hours.
 Setting up automated chatbots to handle all inquiries.
 Managing an online discussion forum for fishermen.
10.
When helping walk-in customers, what is the expected duty?
 Providing information and assistance regarding Alaska Region services.
 Directing them to a different agency for assistance.
 Keeping them in the waiting room until a manager is available.
 Asking them to submit a formal request via email only.
11.
If a constituent calls with a general question about permitting issues, what is the appropriate action?
 Tell them you are not allowed to answer general questions.
 Perform routine research to provide an accurate answer.
 Ask them to send a formal letter to the director.
 Tell them to call back later and leave a message.
12.
If a permit applicant submits an application with missing or incorrect information, what is the appropriate initial action to take?
 Deny the application immediately without notice.
 Process the application as is and hope the applicant corrects it later.
 Initiate contact with the customer via mail, telephone, email, or fax to correct the deficiencies.
 Leave the application on your desk until a supervisor notices it.
13.
What should you do if you encounter a permit application issue that is highly complex or outside of your routine duties?
 Make an educated guess to resolve the issue quickly.
 Ignore the application until you have more training.
 Attempt to resolve it by creating your own policy.
 Refer the complex issue to a higher-level specialist.
14.
When performing data entry in the permitting system for the agency, what is the primary standard used to determine if an application is processed correctly?
 The preference of the permit applicant.
 Eligibility criteria set forth in relevant regulations.
 The quickest way to clear the queue.
 General office suggestions from co-workers.
15.
How should official records, such as applications and correspondence, be managed in the office?
 They should be filed in accordance with appropriate federal records management procedures.
 They should be kept in a stack on the desk for easy access.
 They should be shredded as soon as they are received.
 They should be taken home to ensure they are not lost in the office.
16.
Which of the following tasks is considered part of the mail and correspondence duties for this role?
 Writing new laws for groundfish harvesting.
 Distributing incoming mail and preparing outgoing correspondence.
 Designing the graphic layout for all permit certificates.
 Personally delivering permits to commercial harvesters.
17.
When an applicant submits a form with missing information, what is the correct procedure?
 Deny the application immediately without notifying the customer.
 Contact the customer via methods like mail, telephone, or email to correct the deficiency.
 Wait for the customer to call the office to check on their status.
 Forward the file to the IT department for correction.
18.
Which of the following tasks is specifically mentioned regarding the handling of official records?
 Shredding all files older than one year.
 Selling non-essential records to public archives.
 Filing applications and correspondence according to federal records management procedures.
 Uploading all physical files to a public-facing website.
19.
What is a standard task performed regarding mail management?
 Delivering all mail personally to applicants
 Processing and distributing incoming mail and preparing outgoing correspondence.
 Only handling internal office memos.
 Creating new postage stamps for the department.
20.
What is a specific clerical task involving the preparation of materials for customers?
 Designing logos for permit applications.
 Preparing mailing materials and labels for large mail-outs.
 Writing marketing brochures for the agency.
 Coding a website for permit renewals.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired. I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.
 Yes
 No
