Position Title
RECREATION ASSISTANT (COMMUNITY RECREATION)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
JRM-25-579-1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


6.
I am willing to work split days off, evenings, weekends, holidays, early and/or late.  I am also willing to be recalled regularly.
 Yes
 No


7.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Recreation Assistant (Community Recreation) position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.



1.
Choose the statement that best describes your training, education, and/or experience related to this position. (Resume provided must reflect experience, must provide official transcripts, and/or must provide personnel action/SF50)
 Successful completion of two years of study above the high school level that included at least 12 semester hours related to recreation (e.g., basic psychology, group dynamics, physical education, arts and crafts, etc.). (Must provide official transcripts)
 12 months of full time work experience of which 6 months is specialized experience related to customer service and/or recreation activity based functions. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above. (Must provide official transcripts and resume must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience in planning, coordinating, and executing recreational programs, special events, trips, and/or outings. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has over 5 years of full time work experience in planning, coordinating, and executing recreational programs, special events, trips, and/or outings. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 3 to 5 years of full time work experience in planning, coordinating, and executing recreational programs, special events, trips, and/or outings. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 1 to 3 years of full time work experience in planning, coordinating, and executing recreational programs, special events, trips, and/or outings. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience providing customer service, handling patron inquiries, and/or resolving customer issues. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has over 5 years of full time work experience in providing customer service, handling customer inquiries, and/or resolving customer issues.  (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 3 to 5 years of full time work experience in providing customer service, handling customer inquiries, and/or resolving customer issues.  (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 1 to 3 years of full time work experience in providing customer service, handling customer inquiries, and/or resolving customer issues.  (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙