Position Title
Surgical Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13032630-26-SJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
RESUME REMINDER: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. 
Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. In your resume you will need to address the general and specialized experience listed below. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position. 

Resume should include for example: 
Contact information;
Descriptions of jobs held, including the name and address of employer, job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date (month/year) of employment, average hours worked per week if part-time, and supervisor's name and phone number;
Education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc.
Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience.
Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): Your resume must support your response.
Health Aid and Technician Series, 0640

Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-04 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled.
 I meet the IOR by having the specialized experience.
 I do not meet the IOR as described above.


2.
GS-05 Level
Minimum Qualification Requirement: Your resume must support your response.
Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level. 
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-04 directly related to the work of the position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Handling instruments used in basic surgical procedures. Operates and monitors commonly used equipment performing simple surgical cases to more complex cases. Applying guidelines to emergent and non-emergent situations. Provides transportation of patients to and from the surgical/operating room. Manage assignments. OR, 
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have four years above high school education leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation. OR, 
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of GS-04 level specialized experience directly related to the work of the position and graduate-level education beyond the first 60 semester hours (beyond the second year).
NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess one full year of GS-04 level specialized experience directly related to the work of the position.
 I possess four years above high school education leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation. (Transcripts required)
 I possess a combination of GS 04 level specialized experience related to this position and education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (beyond the second year). (Transcripts required)
 None of the above responses apply to me.


3.
GS-06 Level
Minimum Qualification Requirement: Your resume must support your response.
Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level. 
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05 directly related to the work of the position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Handles the instruments, supplies, and equipment during all surgical procedures to include extremely complex procedures independently. Assists surgical team with patient positioning, prepping, and setting up the operative field. Recognizes changes in patient condition and takes appropriate actions in response to the situation. Prepares prosthesis and/or surgical devices during procedure. 
 I possess one full year of GS-05 level specialized experience directly related to the work of the position.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience related to this position.


4.
GS-07 Level
Minimum Qualification Requirement: Your resume must support your response.
Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Applicants must have one full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level.
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-06 directly related to the work of the position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Responsible for correct identification and proper handling of all surgical specimens passed off from the surgical field. Prepares, organizes, and maintains highly complex sterile surgical setups. Follows all infection control policies and procedures when handling specimens, supplies, and equipment. Recognizes changes in patient condition and takes appropriate actions in response to the situation. Provides guidance and support to staff regarding infection control and patient safety protocol. Handles instruments, supplies and equipment during a variety of surgical procedures. OR,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have one full year of graduate level education. OR,
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of GS-06 level specialized experience directly related to the work of the position and education beyond a bachelor's degree may be used to qualify.
NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-06) directly related to the work of the position.
 I possess a one full year of graduate level education. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a combination of GS-06 level experience directly related to the work of the position and education beyond a bachelor’s degree to qualify. (Transcripts Required)
 None of the above responses apply to me.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙