Position Title
Recreation Specialist (GEI)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12840407 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 24, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Mark the statement which best describes your education and experience background as documented on your resume. For any education or certification claimed, a copy of your degree, transcript, and/or certificate must be uploaded in order for it to be considered.
 A bachelor's or higher degree in physical education, exercise science, exercise physiology, kinesiology, or a similar field AND a DEAC- or NCCA-accredited Certified Group Exercise Instructor/Trainer Certification (ACSM, ACE, NASM, NSCA, etc.), with experience working in a fitness facility. Documentation required.
 An associate or higher degree in physical education, exercise science, exercise physiology, kinesiology, or a similar field AND a DEAC- or NCCA-accredited Certified Group Exercise Instructor/Trainer Certification (ACSM, ACE, NASM, NSCA, etc.), with experience working in a fitness facility. Documentation required.
 A DEAC- or NCCA-accredited Certified Group Exercise Instructor/Trainer Certification (ACSM, ACE, NASM, NSCA, etc.). Documentation required.
 Experience in a fitness facility with no significant fitness education or certification.
 No fitness experience, education, or certification.


2.
How much experience conducting group exercise classes (including group exercise instruction, lectures, and various group athletic activities) have you documented on your resume?
 4 or more years
 2 - 4 years
 Less than 2 years
 No experience


3.
Are you reasonably able to perform physical exertions such as walking, standing, running, biking, bending, pushing, pulling, lifting up to 45 pounds unassisted, lifting over 45 pounds with assistance, performing fitness tests, demonstrating proper exercises, participating in various fitness activities, setting a positive example of overall physical fitness, and taking precautions to avoid muscle strain or other bodily injury?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires verification of specific certifications in order to qualify. Have you uploaded current (i.e. not expired) Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) Instructor and First Aid Instructor with Automated External Defibrillator (AED) certificates with your resume?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙