Position Title
Community Planner-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-002003-12841905-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Tuesday, December 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a COMMUNITY PLANNER, NH-0020-03. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of COMMUNITY PLANNER, NH-0020-03. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I possess a degree in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. NOTE: Applicants with degrees in related fields, such as those listed above, who do not have the 12 semester hours of specified course work must have had at least 1 year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner.
 I have a combination of education and experience in courses equivalent to a major in one of the above disciplines, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the above disciplines of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education
 I do not have the experience/education such as described in A or B above.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this Community Planner NH-0020-03 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of Community Planner NH-0020-03 (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-11), level, payband (NH-02), or equivalent (pay schedule, pay band, etc). Specialized experience is described as developing, reviewing, planning and/or making recommendations on complex planning problems related to a variety of land uses involving conflicting factors, economic growth, and the social and cultural welfare of communities; and/or planning and producing comprehensive planning studies to be used as the basis for administrative or budget planning.
 I do not have the specialized experience described above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of the position.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙