Position Title
SUPERVISORY INDUSTRIAL SECURITY SPECIALIST
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-12884681-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current U.S. Citizen applying for this vacancy?

 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


7.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


8.
Where did you learn about the DCSA position for which you are applying?
Campus event (in-person or virtual)
In-person hiring event
Virtual hiring event
DCSA website
USAJobs job search
USAJobs saved search email notification
DCSA employee
LinkedIn job posting
DCSA LinkedIn social media post
Recruiter LinkedIn post
Facebook post
X post
Handshake post
School job announcement
Professional organization
Conference career fair
Contacted by a Recruiter
Other


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have the required equivalent specialized experience in the Federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) which has given me the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-14) and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience includes: Managing a portfolio, projects, programs, or systems; Demonstrates expert knowledge of security, intelligence, and business, with proficiency in analyzing workflows, metrics/production requirements, and needs analysis; Training, leading, and mentoring others; Applying vetting principles and practices to address programs, technology, organizations, or individual risk; And auditing approved risk management activities or determining risk management requirement activities to ensure adherence to applicable regulatory standards and internal style guides.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


2.
Please describe your skill in training, coaching, mentoring, or leading others to ensure appropriate policies, practices, and procedures are followed, encourage high performance, and fulfill team or organization performance indicators.



3.
Please describe your skill in applying knowledge of various company types, including their corporate governance documentation, ownership, control, and oversight of daily operations to evaluate the need for risk treatment or the evaluation of whether existing risk treatment actions are sufficient to address risk.



4.
Please describe your skill in analytic and evaluative methods that enables the review of programs and systems within the context of existing, new, or modified legislation or program updates to determine impacts that may occur affecting program efficiency, effectiveness, or resources.



5.
Please describe your skill in public speaking, oral and written communications to logically organize and articulate decisions, conclusions, recommendations and rationales; ability to analyze and develop security policy and procedures and present information to a variety of audiences.



6.
Please describe your skills in USG disciplines, such as industrial security (0080), economic security (0110, 0119, 1160, 1102, 1101, 0511), intelligence (0132), or information security (0080), particularly with experience vetting personnel or entities for threats or vulnerabilities.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙