Position Title
Visual Information Specialist (Multimedia)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ1HR-26-12920464-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree? (Veterans who have completed a period of obligated uniformed service of more than four years, have up to four years after degree completion to apply).  NOTE: See announcement for more specific information on appointment eligibility.

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Whitehall, OH
 B. Fort Belvoir, VA


3.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Responses to the essay questions are optional. If you choose not to respond to the essay question or essay questions, please place "N/A in the text box.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 GS-07: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Assisted in the layout and design of communication products such as flyers, brochures, newsletters, or digital graphics using software like Photoshop, Illustrator, or InDesign. Supported senior designers by preparing draft visual materials based on established templates, brand guidelines, or detailed instructions. Conducted basic research to gather information for visual products and translated straightforward concepts into simple graphics or illustrations.
 GS-07: I possess one full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement.
 GS:07: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 GS-09: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Independently designed and produced communication materials—including newsletters, brochures, infographics, and digital graphics—using professional desktop publishing software. Translated general ideas or communication objectives into visual concepts and selected appropriate formats, styles, and media to support messaging. Conducted research to determine the most effective visual approach for representing information and created original illustrations, charts, or data visualizations.
 GS-09: I possess a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 GS-09: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in D and E above.
 GS-11: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Served as a technical expert in designing, developing, and producing a wide range of strategic communication products for internal and external audiences, translating broad or abstract concepts into compelling visual information. Created highly original illustrations, complex data visualizations, models, and graphics without established templates, determining the most effective visual treatment for sensitive or high-impact subject matter. Led the design and development of integrated multimedia content for organizational websites and digital platforms, including interactive elements, animations, and user-interface components that enhance information accessibility.
 GS-11: I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 GS-11: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in G and H above.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙