Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (District/Zone Assistant Fire Management Officer)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
27-FIRE-P1VA-DZAFMOM-89DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Andalusia, AL
Brent, AL
Double Springs, AL
Heflin, AL
Talladega, AL
Anchorage, AK
Girdwood, AK
Juneau, AK
Moose Pass, AK
Duncan, AZ
Clarksville, AR
Deer, AR
Hector, AR
Jessieville, AR
Mena, AR
Mount Ida, AR
Mountain View, AR
Ozark, AR
Paris, AR
Waldron, AR
Del Norte, CO
Dolores, CO
Eagle, CO
Silverthorne, CO
Olustee, FL
Chatsworth, GA
Lakemont, GA
Kooskia, ID
Orofino, ID
Potlatch, ID
Vienna, IL
Big Creek, KY
London, KY
Bentley, LA
Boyce, LA
Leesville, LA
Provencal, LA
Winnfield, LA
Munising, MI
Raco, MI
Rapid River, MI
Saint Ignace, MI
Watersmeet, MI
Deer River, MN
Ackerman, MS
Forest, MS
Meadville, MS
Ovett, MS
Oxford, MS
Potts Camp, MS
Ava, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Potosi, MO
Ashland, MT
Augusta, MT
Big Timber, MT
Bigfork, MT
Bozeman, MT
Butte, MT
Choteau, MT
Darby, MT
Dillon, MT
Ennis, MT
Eureka, MT
Gardiner, MT
Harlowton, MT
Helena, MT
Hungry Horse, MT
Huson, MT
Kalispell, MT
Libby, MT
Lincoln, MT
Livingston, MT
Missoula, MT
Neihart, MT
Philipsburg, MT
Plains, MT
Red Lodge, MT
Seeley Lake, MT
Stanford, MT
Stevensville, MT
Sula, MT
Superior, MT
Townsend, MT
Trout Creek, MT
Troy, MT
West Yellowstone, MT
White Sulphur Springs, MT
Whitehall, MT
Wisdom, MT
Wise River, MT
Bloomfield, NM
Clayton, NM
Glenwood, NM
Grants, NM
Magdalena, NM
Mimbres, NM
Mountainair, NM
Quemado, NM
Reserve, NM
Silver City, NM
Tijeras, NM
Truth or Consequences, NM
Franklin, NC
Mars Hill, NC
Nebo, NC
New Bern, NC
Pisgah Forest, NC
Robbinsville, NC
Troy, NC
Dickinson, ND
Watford City, ND
Nelsonville, OH
Pedro, OH
Broken Bow, OK
Dufur, OR
Heppner, OR
Parkdale, OR
Sandy, OR
Ukiah, OR
Edgefield, SC
Mountain Rest, SC
New Ellenton, SC
Whitmire, SC
Camp Crook, SD
Benton, TN
Unicoi, TN
Hemphill, TX
Milam, TX
New Waverly, TX
Ratcliff, TX
Zavalla, TX
Mendon, VT
Blacksburg, VA
Edinburg, VA
Hot Springs, VA
Marion, VA
Natural Bridge Station, VA
Norton, VA
Amboy, WA
Hoodsport, WA
North Bend, WA
Pomeroy, WA
Port Angeles, WA
Quilcene, WA
Randle, WA
Sedro Woolley, WA
Trout Lake, WA
Walla Walla, WA
Parsons, WV
White Sulphur Springs, WV
Laona, WI
Washburn, WI
Buffalo, WY
Cody, WY
Dubois, WY
Greybull, WY
Lander, WY
Sheridan, WY


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.


1.
Do you have experience performing on-the-line (Primary/Rigorous) wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew or comparable unit that utilized knowledge of wildland fire suppression, containment or control techniques and practices under various conditions? This experience must be documented with specific dates in the online application or resume.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirements of Task Force Leader (TFLD) and Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3) or Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2); OR Primary NWCG Core Requirements of Helibase Manager (HEBM) and Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3)? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application.
 Yes
 No


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-08 level of this GW-0462 Wildland Firefighter (District/Zone Assistant Fire Management Officer Moderate Complexity) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: Assisted in developing fire control plans and documents relating to fire pre-suppression, prevention, detection, and suppression tactics and strategies and/or Prepared fuels hazard and wildland fire risk assessments and/or Assisted in coordinating and executing wildland fire suppression and prescribed burning operations.
 I have two full years (36 semester/54 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level education or master's degree if the coursework is directly related to the work of the position (such as forestry, range management, agriculture).
 I have combinations of graduate level education that is directly related to the position (in excess of 18 semester/27 quarter hours) and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-09 level of this GW-0462 Wildland Firefighter (District/Zone Assistant Fire Management Officer Moderate Complexity) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-08 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: Assisted in managing a broad range of fire programs such as preparedness, prevention, prescribed burning, monitoring, and hazardous fuels reduction and/or Assisted in writing and executing wildland fire management plans, prescribed burn plans, and preparedness plans and/or Assisted in determining annual pre-suppression and suppression needs.
 I have two full years (36 semester/54 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level education or master's degree if the coursework is directly related to the work of the position (such as forestry, range management, agriculture).
 I have combinations of graduate level education that is directly related to the position (in excess of 18 semester/27 quarter hours) and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


For each item below use the text box to provide a description of a specific instance from your training and/or experience. In your response, follow these guidelines as you write your accomplishment:
 Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved, etc.
 Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.
Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating.


5.
Fire Management - includes the concepts, principles and theories of fire management, including the characteristics, behavior and ecology of fire; methodologies, strategies, and equipment used in the wildland fire system; fire detection, prevention, and suppression strategies; and integration of firefighting resources with all hazard response.

Describe your most significant accomplishment with fire management, please include the position title in the box below. Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating (limit of 2000 characters).


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding ?no? to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙