Position Title
Health System Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12958324-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
GS-11 Specialized Experience Requirement: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the Health System Specialist, GS-0671-11 position.

Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-9 in the healthcare field performing progressively responsible analytical, administrative and clinical management duties. Specialized experience is defined as:
Contributing to operation of the service by providing accurate reporting, trending, and education to protect the organization's resources;
Works closely with senior management and others in implementing and evaluating policies, plans, and internal operational systems such as correspondence management, information tracking, and communication;
Develops processes and procedures to streamline administrative activities;
Coordinating activities involved in administrative investigations; assisting in preparation of organizational charts; providing support on various issues and concerns;
Acting as a liaison for the service when leadership is unavailable.
OR,

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level education leading to such a degree OR LL.M, if related. Education must be in a major study in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration

OR,

Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond master's or graduate degree level.

Do you have the experience/education as described in the above? Please select the appropriate response.

NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment. Transcripts must be submitted with application

 
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) as described above. I understand my resume must reflect my experience.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level education leading to such a degree OR LL.M, if related. Education must be in a major study in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I do not possess the experience or education to meet the basic requirements for the position. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


2.
GS-12 Specialized Experience Requirement: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
In-depth knowledge of health care service administration, continuous quality improvement; data analysis; healthcare principles, theories and practices; budgeting, planning, administration, and labor/union relationships, or other key administrative support functions; sufficient to analyze and evaluate broad and difficult problems, apply extensive qualitative and/or quantitative methods for program improvement, make recommendations for complicated solutions; and the related ability to apply health care management principles to complex problem-solving situations.
Highly developed skill in applying advanced qualitative and quantitative techniques in order to perform thorough management analysis of current and projected diagnostic service programs.
Extensive knowledge of the unique characteristics of the specific health care delivery system served, the missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems, intra- and interdepartmental relationships, and agency operations and programs sufficient to interact effectively with healthcare facilities and to seek out and secure more detailed, technical information for task accomplishment when needed.
Comprehensive knowledge of broad agency administrative practices such as correspondence control practices, office processes, regulations, and rules in keeping with senior management decision makers affecting the administration and delivery of healthcare services.
Ability to apply extensive knowledge and skills in hospital administration principles, theories, and practices to inquiries and studies where the boundaries are broad and difficult. In this capacity, applies knowledge of advanced management principles with demonstrated applications to healthcare operations.
Ability to independently investigate complex issues, analyze problems, and present both written and oral recommendations taking into full consideration the wide range of factors and requirements which affect the management of the healthcare delivery system.

Do you possess the specialized experience above?

 

NOTE: Your Resume must reflect your response.

 Yes, I have one year specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent as described above. I understand my resume must reflect the required specialized experience.
 No, I do not have one year of specialized experience as described above. I understand I will no longer be considered for consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙