Position Title
Park Ranger (I) - FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHO-26-13052233-DE-KO Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 45 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): Monroe, Michigan

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your response to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in determining your eligibility to be considered for this position. Choose the response that best represents your education, experience, and/or training. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your response is subject to evaluation and verification and will be verified against the information you provide.


Minimum Qualifications for Park Ranger (Interpretation)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-05 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). This experience MUST include: park guide or tour leader, law enforcement or investigative work, archaeological or historical preservation research work, forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area, management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations, or other similar work.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with a major study which includes 24 semester hours of related course work. Major study may include natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. You must provide transcripts.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education, as described above, that when combined equal at least 100% of the minimum qualification requirement for the GS-05 grade level. NOTE: Only progressive education in excess of the first 2 years (above 60 semester hours or equivalent) is creditable when combining. You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service obtained in either the public or private sectors (Note: One grade interval work such as guide, clerk, assistant or technician work in a single grade occupational series at the GS-05 level does NOT generally qualify for this position, however GS-06 level may). This experience MUST include: (1) developing and presenting independently researched programs; (2) developing material for nonpersonal services and interpretive media; (3) coordinating the operation of a visitor facility and/or information desk; (4) assisting in coordinating special projects.
 I have one year of graduate-level education in a related field appropriate to the position, such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. You must provide transcripts.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education, as described above, that when combined equals at least 100% of the minimum qualification requirement for the GS-07 level. NOTE: Only graduate level education is creditable when combining. You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education.
 I have a directly related bachelor's degree AND Superior Academic Achievement. Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (1) Class standing--Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. (2) Grade-point average (G.P.A.)--Applicants must have a grade-point average of: (A) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (B) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society. Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies. These honor societies are listed in the Association of College Honor Societies: Booklet of Information (1992-95) and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities (1991). Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision. IMPORTANT NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). This experience MUST include: (1) coordinating, evaluating, or directing interpretive programs; (2) assisting with developing long-range program plans; (3) developing interpretative and educational programs; (4) coaching/mentoring interpretive, or similar, staff.
 I have two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education OR a master's/equivalent graduate degree related to the occupation in a field such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education that when combined equals at least 100% of the minimum qualification requirement for the GS-09 level. NOTE: Only progressive graduate education beyond the first year is credible when combining. You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙