Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Special Agent)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
26-DE-12890564-RT Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
2.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


3.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


2.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and/or transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work. Your resume must be in English and include the following:
Full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full-time (less than 35 hours per week)
For all Federal employment experiences, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the requirements listed in the instructions above?
 Yes.
 No, and I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my consideration.


3.
The DOJ requires that during three of the last five years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal, military, or federally-sponsored capacity, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country. You may be asked to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement. Do you meet the residency requirement?
 I resided in the United States for three of the last five years.
 I worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal, military, or federally sponsored capacity for three of the last five years.
 I have been a dependent (includes spouse) of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for three of the last five years.
 For three of the last five years, I have met the residency requirement through a combination of the above three criteria.
 I do not meet any of the above requirements.


4.
Are you receiving a retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your retirement annuity.
To Verify, please submit a copy of your retirement SF50 with your application package.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50), or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


6.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives (ATF) is committed to ensure that all hiring decisions are free from engagement in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public offices as outlined in Prohibited Personnel Practices ( 5 USC 2302(b)).

Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, do you have relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere within the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives (ATF)? This includes ATF employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or stepchild, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. " Other covered individuals include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do, please provide their names(s) and relationship(s) in the narrative box. If you do not, please put N/A.


7.
I understand the below position requirements:
I will be required to sign a mobility agreement stating that I may be relocated at any time to any office in the United States, including U.S. territories and I will be required to perform a minimum of 3-5 years at my initial duty station.
I will be required to attend and pass the Criminal Investigator Training Program (CITP). Failing to pass this program may result in employment termination or position reassignment.
I will be required to attend and pass the ATF Special Agent Basic Training (SABT). Failing to pass this program may result in employment termination or position reassignment.
By selecting yes below, I acknowledge that I have been informed of the above position requirements and agree to signing a mobility agreement and understand that failing the CITP and/or SABT program may result in employment termination or position reassignment. I understand that responding "No" to this will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have a current valid State driver's license, or will you be able to obtain a valid license at the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


9.
I understand that I will be required to take part in the below pre-employment requirements as part of the Special Agent hiring process:
Drug Testing: - You must satisfactorily complete a drug test prior to being hired. The agency will schedule, provide, and pay for the drug test. Once on board, you will be subject to random drug testing. Please review ATF's Drug Policy.
Medical Examination: You must meet the established medical standards and/or physical requirements for the position, proving you are medically and physically capable of performing the essential job functions and duties of the position safely and efficiently. A medical examination will be conducted.
Polygraph Examination: You will be required to successfully complete a polygraph examination. Applicants who have significant responses or who manipulate the polygraph process will be removed from the hiring process. Researching polygraphs is unnecessary and highly discouraged, as many websites recommend methods that, if employed, may be deemed as a manipulation of the polygraph process. Any prior polygraph examinations may be queried, and the results of your polygraph may be shared with other agencies.
Background Investigation: - You will be required to undergo a thorough background investigation prior to employment. During the screening and/or background investigation process, you will be asked questions regarding any felony criminal convictions or current felony charges, the use of illegal drugs (e.g., marijuana, cocaine, heroin, LSD, methamphetamines, ecstasy), and the use of non-prescribed controlled substances including any experimentation, possession, sale, receipt, manufacture, cultivation, production, transfer, shipping, trafficking, or distribution of controlled substances.
By selecting yes below, I acknowledge that I have been informed of the above pre-employment requirements and failing any of the above requirements will result in my removal from the hiring process. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


10.
This position requires a polygraph examination. Failing an ATF polygraph examination will result in ineligibility to apply to an ATF polygraphed position for 3 years from the date of the results. Have you previously taken a polygraph examination with ATF?
 No
 Yes, and I PASSED the ATF polygraph examination.
 Yes, but I FAILED the ATF polygraph examination within the last 3 years.
 Yes, but I FAILED the ATF polygraph examination more than 3 years ago.
 Yes, but I did not complete the examination process.
 No, as I was deemed ineligible based on my reciprocity polygraph results from another federal agency.


11.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, concerning a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes.
 No.


12.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes.
 No.


13.
Do you currently have an application pending for any other ATF Special Agent position?
 Yes, I am in the Special Agent Applicant Assessment (SAAA) process.
 Yes, I am in the Physical Task Test (PTT) process.
 Yes, I am in the Structured Interview (SI) process.
 Yes, I am in the Background Investigation process.
 Yes, but I do not know what process I am in.
 No, I have no other Special Agent application pending.


14.
This position requires a background investigation. Failing an ATF background investigation will result in ineligibility to apply to ATF positions for 3 years from the date of the results. Have you previously gone through an ATF background investigation?
 No.
 Yes, and I PASSED the ATF background investigation.
 Yes, but I FAILED the ATF background investigation within the last 3 years.
 Yes, but I FAILED the ATF background investigation more than 3 years ago.
 I am currently going through the ATF background investigation process.


15.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


16.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


17.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


18.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


19.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
How did you first find out about this position? Your response will help us focus on future recruitment efforts.

Career or Job fair
Friend or Relative
ATF Information Session
ATF Recruiting Event
ATF Virtual Job Fair
ATF Website
Current or Former ATF Employee
Professor or University Contact
Public Policy & International Affairs Program (PPIA)
Social media (e.g., LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter)
USAJOBS Website (www.usajobs.gov)
Professional Society/Organization
University Career Fair
University Career Placement Office
Other


2.
Select from the below ATF Field Divisions (https://www.atf.gov/contact/atf-field-divisions) that are closest to where you live. This is where you will take your Physical Task Test (PTT) and Structured Interview (SI). ATF will not pay for any travel or lodging. Please review the Field Divisions and areas of coverage carefully.
Atlanta Field Division covers Georgia.
Baltimore Field Division covers Maryland and Delaware.
Boston Field Division covers Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
Charlotte Field Division covers of North and South Carolina.
Chicago Field Division covers Norther Illinois, Northern Indiana, and Eastern Wisconsin.
Columbus Field Division covers Southern Indiana and Ohio.
Dallas Field Division covers New Mexico, Northwest Texas, and Oklahoma.
Denver Field Division covers Colorado, Montana, Utah, and Wyoming.
Detroit Field Division covers Michigan.
Houston Field Division covers Southeast Texas.
Kansas City Field Division covers Southern Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.
Los Angeles Field Division covers Southern California.
Louisville Field Division covers Kentucky and West Virginia.
Miami Field Division covers Southeast Florida and the Caribbean.
Nashville Field Division covers Alabama and Tennessee.
Newark Field Division covers New Jersey.
New Orleans Field Division covers Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi.
New York Field Division covers New York.
Philadelphia Field Division covers Pennsylvania.
Phoenix Field Division covers Arizona and New Mexico.
San Francisco Field Division covers Northern California and Nevada.
Seattle Field Division covers Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
St. Paul Field Division covers Minnesota, North and South Dakota and Western Wisconsin.
Tampa Field Division covers Northwest Florida.
Washington Field Division covers the District of Columbia and Virginia.


The following questions will only be used to determine whether you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


3.
Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GL-5 grade level?

 I have three years of progressively responsible experience, 1 year of which was equivalent to at least the GS/GL-04 level that included performing duties in planning and organizing work; and communicating effectively orally and in writing.
 I have a bachelor's degree or successful completion of a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in ANY FIELD from an accredited college or university. (Must include official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility).
 I will receive within 9 months of the closing date of this announcement a bachelor's degree in ANY FIELD of study from an accredited college or university. (Expected conferred date must be listed on your resume along with submissions of your unofficial or official transcripts).
 I have less than 4 years of post-high school education and do not possess a bachelor's degree and have less than the experience described in "A," but I have a combination of education and the type of experience described in "A" totaling 100% of the stated minimum qualifications for this position. (Must include official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility),
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience described above for this position at the GL-05.


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GL-7 grade level?

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the next lower grade (GL-5), that included assisting in criminal investigations by gathering evidence, conducting record and database searches; participating in searches, seizures and arrests and preparing reports for routine investigations.
 I meet the Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) requirements - I have received a Bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice and/or Administration; Law and Society; Forensics; Public Safety and/or Administration; Homeland Security; Law Enforcement; Justice Administration; Organizational Security and Management; Criminology; Cyber Security; Social Work; Fire Science with SAA. SAA may be met in one of the following ways: (1) grade point average of "B" (a GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. (2) grade point average of "B+" (a GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in the applicant's major field of study, or those courses in the applicant's major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. (3) Rank in the upper one-third of the applicant's class in the college, university, or major subdivision. (4) Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. (Your degree conferred date must be included on your official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility).
 I have one full year of graduate level education in Criminal Justice and/or Administration; Law and Society; Forensics; Public Safety and/or Administration; Homeland Security; Law Enforcement; Justice Administration; Organizational Security and Management; Criminology; Cyber Security; Social Work; Fire Science. (Must include official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility).
 I will receive within 9 months from the closing date of this announcement a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement or one full year of graduate level education (equivalent to 18 semester or 27 quarter hours) in the field of studies of Criminal Justice and/or Administration; Law and Society; Forensics; Public Safety and/or Administration; Homeland Security; Law Enforcement; Justice Administration; Organizational Security and Management; Criminology; Cyber Security; Social Work; Fire Science from an accredited college or university. (Expected conferred date must be listed on your resume along with submissions of your unofficial or official transcripts).
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "C" and less than the amount of experience described in "A," but I have a combination of the type of education described in "C" and the type of experience described in "A" totaling 100% of the stated minimum qualifications for this position. (Must include official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility)
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience described above for this position at the GL-07.


5.
Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GL-9 grade level?

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GL-07), that included serving subpoenas, arrest and search warrants; conducting interviews, interrogations of suspects and witnesses; providing status reports of ongoing criminal investigations to higher level management.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in Criminal Justice and/or Administration; Law and Society; Forensics; Public Safety and/or Administration; Homeland Security; Law Enforcement; Justice administration; Organizational Security and Management; Criminology; Cyber Security; Social Work; Fire Science or LL. B or J.D. (Must include official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility).
 I will receive within 9 months from the closing date of this announcement a master's degree or equivalent or 2 full years of progressively higher graduate level education (equivalent to 36 semester or 45 quarter hours) or a J.D. or an LL.B. degree in the field of studies of Criminal Justice and/or Administration; Law and Society; Forensics; Public Safety and/or Administration; Homeland Security; Law Enforcement; Justice Administration; Organizational Security and Management; Criminology; Cyber Security; Social Work; Fire Science from an accredited college or university. (Expected conferred date must be listed on your resume along with submissions of your unofficial or official transcripts).
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B" and less than the amount of experience described in "A," but I have a combination of the type of education described in "B" and the type of experience described in "A" totaling 100% of the stated minimum qualifications for this position. Only graduate education more than one year (i.e., 18 semester hours) may be combined with experience under this standard. (Must include official or unofficial transcripts to verify eligibility)
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience described above for the GL-09.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙