Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Announcement Number
JSC-26-DE-12960827-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Optional Employment Information and Experience
1.
In what city are you currently working (e.g., Houston)?


2.
In what state are you currently working (e.g., Texas)?


3.
How many years of experience do you have in the field associated with this position (e.g., 3 years 2 months)?


4.
What is your current salary (e.g., $76,500)?


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Assisting with program management, business operations, organizational analysis, or administrative activities supporting organizational goals and operational objectives; assisting with the development, review, or improvement of organizational processes, operational procedures, reporting methods, or administrative practices to support program effectiveness and organizational efficiency; and preparing reports, presentations, briefings, or analytical materials regarding program activities, operational issues, organizational processes, or management initiatives for use by management officials.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in an appropriate field.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in an appropriate field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, C, and D above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.
 I have completed all requirements for a LL.M. degree in an appropriate field.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Performing program management, business operations, organizational analysis, or management advisory activities supporting organizational objectives and program operations; developing, evaluating, and improving organizational processes, operational procedures, reporting methods, or management practices to enhance operational efficiency and program effectiveness; and preparing and presenting reports, briefings, presentations, or analytical products regarding program status, organizational performance, operational initiatives, or management concerns for management officials.
 I do not have the experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Serving as a Program analyst, Management Analyst, or similar advisor performing program management, business operations, organizational analysis, and strategic planning activities supporting organizational objectives; developing, evaluating, and/or improving organizational processes, operational procedures, reporting methods, or management practices to enhance program effectiveness and mission accomplishment; and preparing executive-level reports, briefings, presentations, or analytical products for senior leadership regarding program status, organizational performance, operational initiatives, or strategic objectives.
 I do not have the experience described above.


WRITTEN INTERVIEW INSTRUCTIONS:
This technical assessment consists of scenario-based questions that ask you to describe your technical experience in three (3) areas.

Response Requirements
For each question, give a specific, factual example from your actual work or education experience. Focus your response on the situation, your actions, and the outcome. Ensure your responses are clear and concise. Each response will be limited to 700 characters or less (including spaces).

Verification Requirements
For each response, you are required to identify a supervisor who can verify the experience you described. You will provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who is familiar with the specific situation in your response.

Assessment Evaluation
Your responses will be reviewed and the results of the evaluation will determine whether you advance to the next step in the hiring process, so ensure your responses accurately reflect your capabilities and most relevant experiences.

Assessment Integrity
When completing this assessment, use your own words and work independently. Do NOT use outside help or assistance from others, and do NOT consult artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Copilot, or similar platforms and applications. Your responses must reflect your own knowledge, experience, and writing.


4.
Written Interview Question 1: Describe a time when you were responsible for ensuring the accuracy, accessibility, or integrity of information used by stakeholders. What was the situation, what steps did you take to maintain data quality and compliance with applicable policies (such as privacy or accessibility requirements), and what was the impact of your actions?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


4a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


5.
Written Interview Question 2: Tell me about a project where you were responsible for reporting, analyzing, or integrating financial, schedule, or resource information across multiple organizations or programs. What was your role, how did you gather and validate the information, what tools or systems did you use to support the analysis, and what results did your work enable?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


5a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


6.
Written Interview Question 3: Provide an example of when you supported or led a business or budget process that required coordinating with stakeholders such as analysts, integrators, or management.  How did you ensure accurate data, effective forecasting, and clear communication, and how did your efforts contribute to operational or financial decision-making?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


6a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


Certification


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙