Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS - Inpatient))
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12998229-26-TH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Medical Records Technician (CDIS - Outpatient and Inpatient) position.  Be sure to read and understand the 'Area of Consideration' and the 'Qualifications' for this position before submitting your application. If you have questions, please email me at Teresa.hammond@va.gov.
 



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C.7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision: All persons employed in VHA as a MRT (Coder) on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the journey level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but will not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
Such employees in an occupation that requires a certification only at higher grade levels must meet the certification requirement before they can be promoted to higher-grade levels.
MRTs who are appointed on a temporary basis, prior to the effective date of the qualification standard, may not have their temporary appointment extended, or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
MRTs initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
Employees who are retained as a MRT under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry as MRT.


2.
Basic Education and/or Experience Requirement: For the Medical Records Technician (Coder), please select the response which best represents your education or experience.
 I have one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records. Note: Experience must be clearly documented in the resume.
 I have an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records). Note: Supporting documentation must be submitted at the time of application.
 I have completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed. Note: Supporting documentation must be submitted at the time of application.
 I have six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical, terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. Note: Experience must be clearly documented in the resume and supporting education documentation must be submitted at the time of application.
 I have successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder). Note: Supporting documentation must be submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in options A, B, C, D , E or F above.


3.
Basic Certification Requirement: For the Medical Records Technician (Coder), please select the response which best represents your current certification.
 I possess an Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS. Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 My certification is not reflected in options A, B, C or D.


3a.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified indicate N/A.
Name on certificate:
Certification Type:
Certifying Organization Name:
Complete certificate number (if applicable):
Issued date:
Expiration date:


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


4.
GS-09 Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS - Outpatient and Inpatient)), (Above Full Performance Level):
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must meet one of the following:
1. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient) including:
(a) Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the health record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient.
(b) Ability to accurately perform the full scope of outpatient coding, including ambulatory surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and outpatient encounters, and inpatient facility coding, including inpatient discharges, surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and inpatient professional services.
(c) Skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work, or have gaps in specificity, and the ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines; OR,
2. An associate's degree or higher and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR,
3. Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement; OR,
4. Clinical experience, such as Registered Nurse (RN), Medical Doctor (M.D.), or Doctor of Osteopathy (DO), and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement.

Examples of creditable experience at the GS-08 journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-inpatient) are: A comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to assign ICD codes for diagnosis, complications/major complications, comorbid/major comorbid conditions, surgery, and procedures for accurate assignment of diagnosis related groups (DRG), and/or assigning CPT/HCPCS codes for inpatient professional services. Abstract, assign, and sequence codes into encoder software to obtain correct DRG, support medical necessity, resolve encoder edits, and ensure codes accurately reflect services rendered. Review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). NOTE: Resume must clearly document experience.
 I possess an associate's degree or higher, and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records). NOTE: Documentation must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC, and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement. NOTE: Documentation must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess clinical experience such as RN, M.D., or DO, and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement. NOTE: Resume must clearly document experience
 My experience, education or certification are not reflected in options A, B , C or D.


5.
GS-09 Certification: Employees at this level must have a mastery level certification or a clinical documentation improvement certification., please select the response which best represents your certification.

Mastery Level Certification. This is considered a higher-level health information management or coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA or AAPC. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level certification may be added/removed by the certifying bodies.
 I possess a Certified Coding Specialist (CCS). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Certified Professional Coder (CPC). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Certified Outpatient Coder (COC). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P). Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 I possess a clinical documentation improvement certification from AHIMA or the Association of Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialists (ACDIS) as a Clinical Documentation Improvement Practitioner (CDIP) or Certified Clinical Documentation Specialist. Note: Certification must be submitted at the time of application.
 My certification is not reflected in options A, B, C, D, E, F, G or H.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-09 Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS - Outpatient and Inpatient)), (Above Full Performance Level):
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of coding and documentation concepts, guidelines, and clinical terminology.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology to interpret and analyze all information in a patient's health record, including laboratory and other test results to identify opportunities for more precise and/or complete documentation in the health record.
Ability to collect and analyze data and present results in various formats, which may include presenting reports to various organizational levels.
Ability to establish and maintain strong verbal and written communication with providers.
Knowledge of regulations that define healthcare documentation requirements, including The Joint Commission, CMS, and VA guidelines.
Extensive knowledge of coding rules and regulations, to include current clinical classification systems such as ICDCM and PCS, CPT, and HCPCS. They must also possess knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), MS-DRG structure, and POA indicators.
Knowledge of severity of illness, risk of mortality, complexity of care for inpatients, and CPT Evaluation and Management (E/M) criteria to ensure the correct selection of E/M codes that match patient type, setting of service, and level of E/M service provided for outpatients.
Knowledge of training methods and teaching skills sufficient to conduct continuing education for staff development. The training sessions may be technical in nature or may focus on teaching.

Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙