Position Title
Medical Supply Tech (Sterile Processing)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12859997-26-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 06, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5
6


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the statement below that best describes your experience, education and/or combination of experience/education to meet this requirement.
GS-03 (Entry Level)
Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.
 I have six (6) months of experience that demonstrates my ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work. Please ensure your experience is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 I have one (1) year above high school that included at least six (6) semester hours in health care related courses such as sterile processing, nursing assistant, hospital corpsman, and operating room and surgical technician courses or other courses related to the position. (If your school was accredited at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating). If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education that are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. (If your school was accredited at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating). If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I do NOT possess the experience, education and/or combination of experience/education as described in the above.


2.
GS-04 (Developmental Level): Please select the statement below that best describes your experience or education to meet the grade determination for the GS-04 Level.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) below: 1. Knowledge of universal precautions for safety and prevention of cross contamination. 2. Basic knowledge of medical terminology in order to assemble specialty operating room/clinic instrument sets. 3. Basic knowledge of sterilization and cleaning equipment. 4. Ability to communicate both orally and in writing. Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
Note: Please ensure how you meet these (KSAs) is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 I have six (6) months experience as a Medical Supply Technician (MST), operating room or surgical technician or other position that demonstrated knowledge of sterile processing in a clinical setting. Please ensure your experience is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 I have two (2) years of education above high school that included at least twelve (12) semester hours in courses related to the occupation. NOTE: Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or nursing assistants obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces, the U.S. Maritime Service, or hospitals under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six (6) months of experience. (If your school was accredited at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating). If you are basing your qualifications on education you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I do NOT possess the experience or education as described in the above.


3.
GS-05 (Developmental Level): Please select the statement below that best describes your experience or education to meet the grade determination for the GS-05 Level.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) below: 1. Basic knowledge of surgical instruments used in operating rooms and clinic settings. 2. Basic knowledge of event-related packaging in regards to sterility. 3. Knowledge of sterilization and cleaning equipment.
Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
Note: Please ensure how you meet these (KSAs) is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 I have one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-04 level. Please ensure your experience is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 I have four (4) academic years above high school leading to a Bachelor?s degree with at least twelve (12) semester hours in courses related to the occupation or a Bachelor?s degree. (If your school was accredited at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating). If you are basing your qualifications on education you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I do NOT possess the experience or education as described in the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Determination GS-06 (Full Performance Level): Do you have one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 level?
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs): 1. Knowledge of surgical instruments used in operating rooms and clinic settings. 2. Knowledge of universal precautions for safety and prevention of cross contamination. 3. Working knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, microbiology, medical conditions and procedures. 4. Knowledge of sterility principles in regards to instrumentation. 5. Ability to read and interpret written instructions and procedures.
Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
Note: Please ensure how you meet these (KSAs) is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙