Position Title
Supervisory Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R8-26-12996849-JA-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION. The following questions address if you are eligible to apply to this job opportunity announcement through Merit Promotion procedures. You will only be considered under the options you have selected. You may qualify for more than one eligibility, so please choose carefully. If you respond that you do not meet any of the following criteria, you will not be considered for this position under this announcement. Please refer to the announcement for additional information. You must submit a complete application by the close of the announcement to be considered.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Basic Education Requirement, GS-0401: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Biologists.
 I have successfully completed 4-years of college study leading to a bachelor's degree in the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have successfully completed 24 semester hours in an accredited college or university in the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines and have additional work experience and/or education comparable to the completion of a 4-year course of study in one the disciplines identified above.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
In addition to basic education requirements, you must meet the following in order to qualify for this position.
 I possess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade in the Federal service that equipped me with the knowledge, skills and ability to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of this experience is: Assists in the development and implementation of procedures to standardize and simplify the requirements, procedures, and other activities related to the implementation of the Endangered Species Act; reviews completed work for soundness of overall approach, effectiveness in meeting agency requirements; provides technical and administrative supervision of staff for planning, assigning and reviewing work; makes recommendation on promotions and awards; and works with program offices, other Federal, State and local agencies and the public to ensure proper understanding of regulatory and biological requirements of laws, regulations, and policies.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.
 Yes
 No


4.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙