Position Title
ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
RECE 26-12920904-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8
9
10
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Technician position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineering Technician, GS-0802 at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 level in the Federal service which includes experience in planning and execution of the hydrographic survey program for multiple projects across a geographic area; planning, coordinating, executing, and assigning work to lower graded employees, to complete hydrographic surveying field data collection, and hydrographic surveying data processing using software such as HYPACK. Verifying accuracy of calculations that are both self-performed and performed by those of lower graded employees, of dredging volumes and utilizing engineering techniques to include arithmetic, geometric, algebraic formulas when performing surveying computations; planning and leading program-wide Single/Dual and Multi-beam frequency hydrographic surveys; operating survey vessel and perform launching and loading of the boat; self-performing, and ensuring lower graded employees have performed, appropriate pre-survey calibration and equipment checks; reviewing lower-graded employees work in producing survey plots, channel tabulations, and metadata from survey soundings using specialized software; post-processing survey data utilizing specialized software such as EHYDRO and Computer Aided Design & Drafting (CADD) for the plotting of data; conducting topographic surveys; leading a team in quality control and quality assurance on collected survey data; completing preventative maintenance and repairs on survey equipment, survey vessel, and towing equipment; providing liaison support to government agencies and public interest groups.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineering Technician, GS-0802 at the GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service which includes experience in planning and executing hydrographic surveying field operations in the collection of hydrographic surveying data; processing survey data using software such as HYPACK, in editing, and reviewing for accuracy and completeness, the collected data, and reviewing lower graded employees processing for accuracy; calculating dredging volumes and utilizing engineering techniques to include arithmetic, geometric, algebraic formulas when performing surveying computations, and reviewing lower graded employees calculations for accuracy; performing Single/Dual and Multi-beam frequency hydrographic surveys; operating survey vessel and perform launching and loading of the vessel; performing appropriate pre-survey calibration and equipment checks; produce survey plots, channel tabulations, and metadata from survey soundings using specialized software; post-processing survey data utilizing specialized software such as EHYDRO and Computer Aided Design & Drafting (CADD) for the plotting of data; conducting topographic surveys; implementing quality control standards and perform quality assurance on collected survey data; completing preventative maintenance and repairs on survey equipment, survey vessel, and towing equipment.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineering Technician, GS-0802 at the GS-9 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 level in the Federal service which includes experience in executing hydrographic surveying field operations in the collection of hydrographic surveying data; processing survey data using HYPACK, in editing, and reviewing for accuracy and completeness, the collected data; assisting with calculating dredging volumes and utilizing engineering techniques to include arithmetic, geometric, algebraic formulas when performing surveying computations; assisting and setting up Single/Dual and Multi-beam frequency hydrographic surveys; assisting with operating the survey vessel and perform launching and loading of the vessel; assisting with pre-survey calibration and equipment checks; assisting with producing survey plots, channel tabulations, and metadata from survey soundings using specialized software; inputting post-process survey data utilizing specialized software such as EHYDRO and Computer Aided Design & Drafting (CADD) for the plotting of data; assisting with topographic surveys; assisting with the preventative maintenance and repairs on survey equipment, survey vessel, and towing equipment.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineering Technician, GS-0802 at the GS-8 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes assisting in surveying field operations (land or hydrographic) in the collection of surveying data; supporting senior surveyors using survey data processing software such as HYPACK in editing, and reviewing for accuracy and completeness, the collected data; Assisting in developing and completing technical and design assignments using Computer Aided Design and Drafting (CADD)and Building Information Modeling (BIM) using MicroStation, AutoCAD, and/or Revit; Assisting with creating drawings and making modifications to features for various projects: familiarity in, trailering, operating, and maintaining small crafts or vessels (boats.)
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineering Technician, GS-0802 at the GS-7 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service which includes assisting in field operations in the collection of technical data; supporting senior technicians using data processing software in editing, and reviewing for accuracy and completeness, the collected data; familiarity in developing and completing technical and design assignments using Computer Aided Design and Drafting (CADD)and Building Information Modeling (BIM) using MicroStation, AutoCAD, and/or Revit; Assisting with creating drawings and making modifications to features for various projects. Maintains interest in, or has familiarity in, trailering, operating, and maintaining small crafts or vessels (boats.)
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙