Position Title
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY SPECIALIST (TRADITIONAL REVIEWER)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-25-12801916-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2025 to Sep 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal civilian employee applying for this vacancy?


 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


4.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


8.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes
 No


9.
Where did you learn about the DCSA position for which you are applying?
Campus event (in-person or virtual)
In-person hiring event
Virtual hiring event
DCSA website
USAJobs job search
USAJobs saved search email notification
DCSA employee
LinkedIn job posting
DCSA LinkedIn social media post
Recruiter LinkedIn post
Facebook post
X post
Handshake post
School job announcement
Professional organization
Conference career fair
Contacted by a Recruiter
Other


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 D. Cypress, CA
 E. Fremont, CA
 F. Pasadena, CA
 G. San Diego, CA
 H. Suisun City, CA
 I. Colorado Springs, CO
 J. Denver, CO
 K. Melbourne, FL
 L. Oviedo, FL
 M. Tampa, FL
 N. Atlanta, GA
 O. Augusta, GA
 P. Downers Grove, IL
 Q. Fairview Heights, IL
 R. Hanover, MD
 S. Andover, MA
 T. Livonia, MI
 U. Dayton, OH
 V. Charleston, SC
 W. Farmers Branch, TX
 X. Irving, TX
 Y. San Antonio, TX
 Z. Alexandria, VA
 AA. Herndon, VA
 AB. Quantico, VA
 B. Virginia Beach, VA
 C. Tacoma, WA


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response that best describes your level of specialized experience related to this position.
 I possess specialized experience obtained in federal service, military service or private sector that equipped me with all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-12) and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for the GG-13 position includes: Using the Traditional Security, Security Technical Implementation Guides. Performing impact and risk assessments as part of a security team. Preparing audit reports that identify technical and procedural findings. Applying risk management processes, by assessing and mitigating risks ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, and guidelines for securing personnel, facilities, and information.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above


2.
Please describe your current Security Fundamentals Professional Certification (SFPC) status.


3.
Please describe your experience performing assessments/inspections/reviews to safeguard classified information. In your response, describe the methods you used to evaluate the security posture, the types of facilities and systems or technologies reviewed, and the federal policies or industrial security procedures applied.


4.
Please describe your skills and experience to advise, brief and participate in forums of senior leaders, specifically the ability to express complex ideas/concepts in a clear, logical format.


5.
Please describe your experience participating in Risk Governance processes to provide security risks, mitigations, and input on other technical risk. In your response, include how you collaborated with team members and stakeholders to plan, execute, and synthesize results.


6.
Please describe your experience in developing rapid courses of action to address high visibility issues that arise involving short notice security plan reviews and onsite inspections or validations.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙