Position Title
Facility Assistant (MIXED)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12893450 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Facility Assistant (NA02) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Experience running food and beverages to customers
 Two plus years of documented experience listed above
 One to two years of documented experience listed above
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience listed above
 less than 6 months of documented experience listed above
 No documented experience listed above but the capability to learn


2.
Knowledge of basic cleaning equipment in the kitchen and dining area

 Two plus years of documented experience listed above
 One to two years of documented experience listed above
 6 months to 1one year of documented experience listed above
 Less than 6 months of documented experience listed above
 No documented experience listed above but the capability to learn


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙