Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist (Cyber Policy and Planning)
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-12978271-26-PLCY Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters in the Competitive Service (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard)? who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard) who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This questions below will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement/Minimum qualification requirements:  Applicants must demonstrate evidence in their resume of the below competencies or appropriate licensure, registration(s), certification(s); or A substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrates eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field. Applicants can meet min quals through certification,  licensure, registration(s), or A substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrate eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field. 

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations. knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change.
Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems.
Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations.
Teamwork-Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.
Technical Competence - Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.
 I meet the individual occupational requirements/ Minimum qualifications for this series and grade.
 I do not meet the individual occupational requirements/Minimum qualifications for this series and grade.


2.
To qualify for the GS-15 Supervisory level, you must possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-14 level in the federal service (obtained in either public or private sectors). This experience must include activities such as: 1) Leading policy efforts to develop, implement, and/or evaluate national-level cyber, cybersecurity, technology, and/or cyber-related risk or resilience policy; 2) Serving as the organizational representative at senior-level interagency or other senior-level working groups, 3) Leading analysis of significant policy issues affecting the organization and communicating complex concepts, findings, and limitations into concise, plain language, 4) Leading the integration of cyber, cybersecurity, technology, and/or cyber-related risk or resilience policy to support organizational requirements and developing policy solutions to identified security and other impacts on existing organizational policies, strategies, programs and operations, AND  5) Supervising a team of cyber, cybersecurity, and/or technology policy analysts.
 I meet the qualification requirements as listed above.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements as listed above.


3.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to this statement below, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙