Position Title
Recreation Mechanic
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13023528 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Which of the following best describes your professional experience and education in outdoor recreation equipment maintenance and repair?
 I have formal vocational training/certification in a related area AND at least two (2) years of practical, on-the-job experience in outdoor recreation equipment maintenance and repair.
 I do not have a formal vocational certification, but I have at least three (3) years of job-related practical experience, which includes at least one (1) year specifically focused on outdoor recreation equipment repair.
 I have some practical repair experience (less than three years) and/or no formal certification
 I do not have relevant practical experience or training in this field.


2.
When tasked with troubleshooting a complex malfunction on a piece of outdoor recreation equipment (e.g., a trailer with electrical issues or a small gasoline engine), which of the following best describes your approach and skill level?
 I can independently troubleshoot and repair small gasoline/electric engines, as well as trailer components (axles, brakes, plumbing, electrical) by successfully interpreting and applying manufacturer repair manuals, schematics, and safety specifications.
 I can perform basic maintenance and repair tasks, but I frequently require assistance or supervision when interpreting technical manuals, wiring schematics, or troubleshooting complex trailer assemblies.
 I can operate the hand and power tools required for repairs, but I do not have experience troubleshooting mechanical systems, small engines, or trailer components.
 I have no experience troubleshooting, repairing, or reading technical specifications for mechanical equipment.


3.
Which statement best represents your capability and experience in supervising and training personnel?
 I have professional experience leading a team, and I am fully capable of training and supervising employees in equipment repair procedures, maintenance standards, and workplace safety protocols.
 I have occasionally guided or helped train junior staff members, but I have not formally supervised employees or managed workplace safety programs.
 I am comfortable explaining technical tasks to others, but I do not have experience supervising, training, or managing safety procedures for employees.
 I prefer to work independently and do not have experience or interest in supervising or training others.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙