Position Title
Field Examiner
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
341-26-PDP12980549-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Modesto, CA
 B. Sacramento, CA
 C. Colorado Springs, CO
 D. Reno, NV
 E. Eugene, OR
 F. Medford, OR
 G. Portland, OR
 H. Saint George, UT
 I. Mount Vernon, WA
 J. Spokane, WA
 K. Tacoma, WA
 L. Cheyenne, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Failure to answer the following questions correctly, or submit the required documentation listed, could result in loss of consideration for this position. The TARGET GRADE of this position is a GS-11. This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Salt Lake City, Utah, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Salt Lake City, Utah VBA Regional Office?
 Yes; and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


2.
As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements for the GS-7 (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA).
 I have held a GS-7 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-5 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


3.
As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements for the GS-9 (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA).
 I have held a GS-9 or higher grade
 I have one year in a GS-7 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


4.
Based on the selections below, please choose the answer that best describes how you meet specialized experience at the GS-9 level:
 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-7 level, or equivalent, fact finding sources (i.e., conducting interviews, researching court records, etc.) to verify facts and obtain specific pieces of information; or, experience applying Federal, state and/or local laws and regulations to administer benefits programs or services; or, financial management experience for individuals or businesses.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I have a related LL.B. or J.D.
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience which qualifies me for this grade
 I do not have the education or specialized experience listed in the vacancy announcement


5.
Based on the selections below, please choose the answer that best describes how you meet specialized experience at the GS-11 level:
 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-9 level, or equivalent, conducting interviews in a state and/or Federal benefit/services program capacity to obtain essential information and assess an individual's competency to make valid decisions; Expertise in personal financial management for individuals in exceptionally unique or complex financial situations; Conducting professional interviews or investigations involving issues/cases such as benefit; Establishing and reviewing budgets for expenditures, verifying or monitoring the use of funds, personal financial management, balancing or reconciling finances for disabled individuals or minors who are unable to legally manage their own accounts claims.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I have a LL.M., if related
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience which qualifies me for this grade
 I do not have the education or specialized experience listed in the vacancy announcement


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙