Position Title
T5 INVESTIGATIONS AND INQUIRIES SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
SC-12861678-26-046-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 07, 2026 to Jan 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants who meet the DoD Priority Placement Program Retained Grade category are eligible to apply with this preference.
Applicants claiming DoD Retained Grade preference must submit the following documentation:
Retained Grade PPP Self Certification Checklist (DD3145-1)
SF-50 effecting the placement in retained grade status, and
A copy of the notification letter received (RIF or classification downgrade).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions. Note that the integrity of your responses will be verified with the provided resume.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately; knowledge of applicable laws, directives, regulations, policies, and procedures; skill in interpersonal communications, empathy, and effective listening; ability to organize thoughts, research materials, and manage case projects; skill in comprehending and interpreting directives and laws; ability to enunciate without impediment of speech that would interfere or prohibit effective communications; ability to write reports and presentation formats; and ability to communicate -orally and in writing- clearly and effectively?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.



3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3a.
Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?


4a.
Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?


5a.
Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?


6a.
Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙