Position Title
SUPERVISORY FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-0501-03-13005553-KW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of experience and demonstrated capability when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate


This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience required for the position of Supervisory Financial Services Specialist, NH-0501-03. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your level of experience relevant to the position of a Supervisory Services Financial Specialist, NH-0501-03. NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower band (NH-02) or GS-11 or equivalent in other pay systems. Specialized experience must include: This is a Financial Management Level 2 Certified position IAW the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)2012, Public Law 112-81, Subtitle F-Financial Management, Section 1599d. Incumbent shall comply with the requirements of this certification program. Required certifications and/or licenses are a condition of employment. The employee must obtain and maintain the certifications and/or licenses required to perform the duties of the position. Prepares guidance and explains and defends actions on budgetary procedures and/or interpretation of standard procedures and regulations on the various phases of budget administration to customers/functional area specialists. Serves as liaison between program managers and their representatives, the Group budget office, and other staff offices connected with the budget process (e.g., personnel, accounting, payroll, and procurement). Serves as the NAF funds custodian and the certifying and procurement authority for the purchase of goods and services within regulatory limits. Ensures budget execution & work involving the monitoring of obligations incurred & the actual expenditures of a budget with different sources & types of funding are performed, such as direct & reimbursable annual, multi-year, & no-year appropriations; apportionment; allotments; transfer of funds from other agencies; revenue from industrially funded operations; & refunds.
 I do not have the specialized experience as reflected above.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙