Position Title
PHYSICAL SCIENTIST
Agency
Geological Survey
Announcement Number
USGS-26-DHA-13027361-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to all eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered. We can only verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation. Please see the "Required Documents" section of the announcement for specific requirements.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of the Interior employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency (other than the Department of the Interior) who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one year ago.    
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Physical Scientist, GS-1301-12 position with U.S. Geological Survey. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



1.
Basic Requirements: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Physical Scientists.
 I have successfully completed all requirements for a bachelor's degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties or materials, and electronics.
 I possess a combination of education and experience/course work is equivalent to a major in physical or engineering science or math that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
GS-12: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have professional experience, graduate education, or a combination of professional experience and graduate education. Select the one response below that best describes your education and/or experience.

 I possess at least 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the federal service: (1) Designing and conducting multidisciplinary scientific studies using GIS and remote sending technologies; (2) Developing, integrating, and managing complex geospatial databases and spatial datasets. (3) Evaluating spatial data quality and implement quality assurance and quality control processes.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙