Position Title
Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-OLA-12934091 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current employee of the AO or the Federal Judiciary?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee?

All applicants outside of the AO must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) to verify current or former Federal employment status.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Deputy Legislative Affairs Officer position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions.

WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a law degree (J.D., LL.B., or LL.M.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a member of the bar of a state, territory, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a Federal court of general jurisdiction? (Bar Membership/License Required)

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least 4 years of post J.D. legal experience?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-15/JSP-15/CL 31, or equivalent level?
 Yes
 No


5.
Applicants must have at least one full year (52 weeks) (preferably 5 or more years) of specialized experience which provides evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined in the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) listed in the vacancy announcement. Specialized experience for this position is defined as follows:
Expertise and demonstrated experience in the political, administrative, and legislative processes of Congress.
Demonstrated ability to provide strategic advice and communications with executive-level officers.
Demonstrated ability to solve executive-level complex and sensitive problems.
Demonstrated expertise in composing, reviewing, and revising legal memoranda, legislative documents, explanatory materials, congressional testimony, executive-quality correspondence, speeches, and reports.
Demonstrated ability to assess executive-level, complex, and sensitive information, identify key issues, and implement appropriate solutions.
 Yes, I have one year of specialized experience which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


6.
From the options listed below, please select the years of experience you possess providing analysis of complex legal and legislative issues for executive-level decision-makers and exercising sound judgment to negotiate solutions and execute decisions on behalf of executive-level officials.
 10 or more years.
 5-10 years.
 1-5 years.
 Less than 1 year.


A narrative response for each of the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) is MANDATORY and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application. Please limit your response to one page for each MTQ.


Please provide a statement describing your expert experience dealing with members of Congress and congressional staff, executive branch agencies, and the media. Demonstrated experience staffing congressional hearings or preparing individuals for written and oral testimony before congressional committees. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your excellent skills in oral and written presentation of complicated legal and policy matters. The ability to express, orally and in writing, complex legal and policy issues in clear and succinct language so the concepts are easily understood by judges, lawyers, and non-lawyers. Expert experience conducting and overseeing legal research on pending legislation or regulatory changes, including experience preparing legal analysis, documents, and responses in the form of letters, memoranda, and white papers. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


A narrative response for each of the following Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) is MANDATORY. Exception: applicants currently serving in an AOES and Court Unit Executive positions or under a career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointment, eligible for reinstatement into SES, or have successfully completed a SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM are not required to submit a narrative response for the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). All other applicants must submit responses to the ECQs. Please limit your response to two pages for each ECQ.


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING CHANGE. This core qualification involves experience in developing and implementing an organizational vision, which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors. The incumbent must be able to develop new insights into situations, question conventional approaches, encourage new ideas and innovations, and design and implement new or cutting-edge programs and processes. The incumbent must also be able to think strategically, formulate objectives and priorities, and implement plans consistent with the long-term interests of the organization in a global environment while capitalizing on opportunities, managing risks, and overcoming obstacles. (Key Competencies: Creativity and Innovation, Continual Learning, External Awareness, Flexibility, Resilience, Strategic Thinking, Vision) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING PEOPLE. This core qualification involves experience in designing and implementing strategies, which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, including adherence to EEO guidelines. This includes fostering a work environment where individual differences are valued, managed, and leveraged to achieve, through teamwork, the vision and mission of the organization. The incumbent should be able to develop others to perform and contribute to the organization by providing ongoing feedback and providing opportunities to learn through formal and informal methods. This includes taking a long-term view and building a shared vision with others, acting as a catalyst for organizational change, and influencing others to translate vision into action. (Key Competencies: Organizational Awareness, Interpersonal Skills, Integrity/Honesty, Conflict Management, Team Building, Developing Others) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your BUSINESS ACUMEN. This core qualification involves experience in building and managing a workforce based on organizational goals and staffing needs. It also involves ensuring that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded, and taking action to address performance plans. The incumbent should have experience in managing a multi-sector workforce and a variety of work situations, and in developing and managing budgets and contracts. This includes keeping up to date on technological developments, making effective use of technology to achieve results, and ensuring access to and security of technology systems. (Key Competencies: Financial Management, Human Resources Management, Technology Management, Procurement Management) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience with RESULTS-DRIVEN skills. This core qualification involves experience in stressing accountability and continuous improvement, making timely and effective decisions, and producing results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. The incumbent should have the requisite technical knowledge to identify and pursue appropriate outcomes, as well as practical experience in anticipating and meeting the needs of both internal and external customers, delivering high-quality products and services, and resolving issues and problems. (Key Competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness, Entrepreneurship, Problem Solving, Technical Credibility) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience BUILDING COALITIONS/COMMUNICATION. This core qualification involves experience in developing networks, building alliances, and collaborating across boundaries to build strategic relationships and achieving common goals. This core qualification also involves identifying the internal and external politics that impact the work of the organization. The incumbent should have experience in persuading others, building consensus through give and take, and gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. (Key Competencies: Influencing/Negotiating, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Partnering) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


7.
Applicants who meet the specialized experience requirements also will be assessed on Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). Each of the MTQ must be addressed in your resume, and a separate response to each ECQ is mandatory and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application. Please limit your response to one page for each MTQ & two pages for each ECQ.
 A. Yes, I have addressed each MTQ in my resume, and each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 B. No, I did not address each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document. I have held or am currently in an AOES/SES position, have held an AOES/SES position or have successfully completed an SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM. I have addressed each of the MTQs in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 C. No, I did not address each MTQ, ECQ, or specialized experience statement with a narrative response in a separate document. I understand this will result in my ineligibility for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I understand that failure to provide proof of Bar Membership will result in an incomplete application and could result in non-consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


9.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient) for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙