Position Title
Register Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12893386-26-YE Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. NOTE: Make sure your documents support your response that you select. Your resume should include clear and specific descriptions of your experience as it relates to these questions. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT: Persons appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38USC 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor American Association for Respiratory Care (AARC)?
 Yes
 No


3.
LICENSURE REQUIREMENT: Do you currently possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?
 Yes
 No


4.
Credential. Are you currently registered with the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) the credentialing as a Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT)? Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
 Yes
 No


Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11 - Experience, Licensure, and Credential. Candidates must have:
i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Specialized experience includes: Independently provides Pulmonary Function Testing for both inpatient and/or outpatient settings, receives Pulmonary Function consults for scheduling, give patient notice of future appointments verbally, mailed written letters and by phone, consult literature on a regular basis (e.g. AARC Times, Respiratory Care, etc.) to stay acquainted with alternative modes of therapy and keep technically up to date, calibrates and operates Pulmonary Function equipment and accessories daily, maintains in functioning condition, ensuring safety and efficient operation, troubleshoot all PFT machines and equipment interacting with vendor as needed, cleans Pulmonary Function equipment in between patient testing according to manufactory guidelines, performs diagnostic tests to include arterial blood gas analysis, spirometry, pulse oximetry, peak flow, and negative inspiratory force and COPD management, administers oxygen involving the use of variety of standard respiratory equipment to include low flow systems, perform resting and exercise oxygen saturation in PFT Lab, perform respiratory care procedures in PFT Lab such as therapeutic and diagnostic aerosol, metered dose inhalers, evaluates efficacies of therapeutic modalities, ability to perform all Pulmonary Function testing procedures, uses advanced modes of ventilation and outpatient services, such as NIP, MIP, and 6 Minute Walk testing, etc.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you meet the required creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, hold an active license and RRT credential?
 Yes
 No


6.
KSAs: In addition to meeting the core competencies and experience at the next lower grade level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
i. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
ii. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
iii. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙