Position Title
MATERIALS HANDLER SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12956317-AR-26-074 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E6 - E9, WO1 - CW4 or O1 - O4?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E6 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O4.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1 - O4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Work involves receiving, storing, and assembling for issue, shipment, and distribution, a wide variety of bin and bulk supplies, materials, equipment, or commodities using mechanized, automated, and manual material moving equipment, devices, and systems. Most work requires the incidental or regular use of for lifts and motor vehicles.
 Yes
 No


2.
WS-06: Do you posses 36 months experience demonstrating the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments of lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establishing priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe your experience planning weekly or monthly work schedules and establishing deadlines based on general policies. Please provide a specific example detailing how you determined the necessary skills, materials, and equipment required to accomplish a complex task or mission.



4.

Detail your experience participating in the initial planning of future work schedules and the development of budget requests. How have you previously utilized workload data and staffing estimates to provide actionable recommendations for projected work?



5.

Explain your experience assigning tasks and providing direct work direction to subordinates. Provide an example of how you explain technical work requirements, instruct staff on new procedures, and assist with difficult problem areas while reviewing work in progress.



6.
Describe a situation where you identified a significant work-related problem and independently implemented corrective actions. In your response, explain how you adjusted operations for efficiency, ensured material availability, and coordinated your unit's work with other external units.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙