Position Title
SOCIAL WORKER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12912018-AR-26-057 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently icer in the grade of O1 to O3 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Deputy Chief of Staff G1
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Deputy Chief of Staff G1
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have a Master's degree in Social work from a graduate school of social work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) and acceptable to the Surgeon General?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a current, unrestricted State license to practice clinical social work independently?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Do you have at least 36 months experience in clinical social work assignments? This experience demonstrates particular competencies of knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Must have specialized experience in professional social work that includes interviewing people to establish the nature and extent of their problems, helping them work-out plans for improving the situation, providing assistance and services, referring them to community resources and other organizations as indicated, and assisting them to understand and modify their own patterns of behavior when appropriate. Except as stated above, no other substitution of education for specialized experience is allowed.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


4.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No. I am not related to anyone in this agency.


5.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No, I have not.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙