Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
National Transportation Safety Board
Announcement Number
DE-13067406-26-TT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.



4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Attorney Advisor, GS-0905-14 position with the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Your resume and the responses to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS


1.
Please select the response below that best indicates how you meet the Qualification requirement for the Attorney Advisor, GS-0905-14 position. You must submit proof of your degree. Failure to provide transcripts will cause you to lose consideration for this position.

 I possess a J.D. or LL.B. degree or equivalent, duly licensed and authorized to practice as an attorney under the laws of any State, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Please select the response below that best indicates how you meet the Qualification requirement for the Attorney Advisor, GS-0905-14 position.
 Yes, I am currently a member in good standing of a bar association of a state, a territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am not a member in good standing of a bar association of a state, a territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the Attorney Advisor, GS-0905-14 position. You must provide a detailed description of your experience on your resume. Your resume must support the response you select.

 I possess at least three years of professional legal experience following admission to the bar. This experience must include the following: (1) conducting complex legal research and analysis. (2) interpreting and applying statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative authorities. (3) analyzing substantive and procedural issues arising in administrative, regulatory, judicial, or comparable adjudicative proceedings. (4) drafting legally sufficient decisions, orders, motions, memoranda, or other substantive legal documents. (5) conducting legal research, analysis, writing, editing, and oral presentations. (6) developing persuasive recommendations, and effectively manages legal and factual issues, multiple cases, projects, and priorities simultaneously.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙