Position Title
Facility Operations Specialist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYO-26-13059921-DE-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Merit Hiring Plan - Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Facility Operations Specialist, GS-1640-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualification requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include but are not limited to: assist with planning and coordinating construction or facility maintenance projects; assist with developing, monitoring, and managing project scope, schedules, budgets, costs, and resource requirements; perform contracting and acquisition-related project duties with guidance from senior staff; and support the coordination of multidisciplinary project teams and collaborating with internal and external partners or stakeholders.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described in 1A above, but I have successfully completed two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration from an accredited educational institution.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience as described in 1A above, and education as described in 1B above. Note: only education in excess of the first year of graduate-level education (the amount required for the next lower grade level) may be combined with experience to meet the total requirement. For example, applicants with 6 months of appropriate experience equivalent to the GS-7 (50% of the experience requirement), and 27 semester hours towards a graduate degree described in 1B above (50 percent of the education requirement to qualify for GS-9, in excess of that required for GS-7) would be qualifying for the GS-9 grade level (assuming one year of graduate education is defined by the college or university as 18 semester hours).
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Facility Operations Specialist, GS-1640-11 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualification requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include but are not limited to: plan and coordinate construction or facility maintenance projects; develop, monitor, and manage project scope, schedules, budgets, costs, and resource requirements; perform contracting and acquisition-related project duties; and lead or coordinate multidisciplinary project teams and collaborate with internal and external partners or stakeholders.
 I have successfully completed at least three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, LL.M., or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration from an accredited educational institution.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience as described in 2A above, and education as described in 2B above. Note: only education in excess of the first two years of graduate-level education (the amount required for the next lower grade level) may be combined with experience to meet the total requirement. For example, applicants with 6 months of appropriate experience equivalent to the GS-9 (50% of the experience requirement), and 45 semester hours towards a degree described in 2B above (50 percent of the education requirement to qualify for GS-11, in excess of that required for GS-9) would be qualifying for the GS-11 grade level.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙