Position Title
Cybersecurity Specialist
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
26-12966849-CBWQ Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to Jun 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
DHS actively works to recruit members of the veteran community for jobs in the DHS Cybersecurity Service. Select the response that describes your status as a veteran/preference eligible. Note: Depending on your selection, you may be required to submit additional information/documentation later in the application process.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Tell us more about the current stage of your cybersecurity career by selecting all responses that are accurate.

Note: If none of these options seem accurate, you may have applied via the wrong career track; please contact cybersecurityservice@hq.dhs.gov for assistance before you proceed.
 A. I am a student scheduled to graduate more than 9 months from today
 B. I am a recent graduate or a current student scheduled to graduate in the next 9 months
 C. I am experienced professional interested in switching to cybersecurity from another career field.
 D. I have less than 2 years of cybersecurity work experience (not including internships) and am seeking a job where I can gain more experience and enhance my technical expertise.


2.
Some Entry Track applicants have had exposure to specific types of cybersecurity work through formal training, informal training, and/or brief cybersecurity-focused work experience.

If you have had such exposure, specify a cybersecurity specialization-called a primary technical capability in the DHS Cybersecurity Service. This capability should best describe your current technical cybersecurity expertise and experience. To learn more about DHS Cybersecurity Service technical capabilities visit: http://dhscs.usajobs.gov/Jobs

Note: Many Entry Track applicants have not been learning or working in the field of cybersecurity long enough to have identified a primary technical capability. If you do not yet have a primary technical capability, no response is required.
Cybersecurity Architecture
Cybersecurity Data Science
Cybersecurity Defense Defensive Operations – Intelligence Collection and Analysis
Cybersecurity Defense Operations – Planning, Execution, and Analysis
Cybersecurity Engineering
Cybersecurity Research and Development
Cybersecurity Risk Management and Compliance
Cybersecurity Threat Analysis
Digital Forensics
Mitigation and Response
Physical, Embedded, and Control Systems Security
Secure Network Operations
Security System Operations and Maintenance
Vulnerability Assessment


3.
While degrees are not required for jobs in the DHS Cybersecurity Service, DHS is interested in your level of education and the topics you studied.

Select the highest level of education you have obtained-or are scheduled to obtain in the next 9 months.

Note: DHS is only interested in education above the high school level that is from an accredited institution, as identified by the U.S. Department of Education. If education is from a foreign college or university, you may be required to show that it was comparable to that from an accredited institution in the United States.
 1. High School Diploma or GED
 Associate Degree
 Bachelor’s Degree
 Master’s Degree
 Doctorate Degree
 Other


4.
If you indicated education above the high school level in response to the previous question, select all of the areas in which you obtained a degree(s)-or are scheduled to obtain a degree in the next 9 months.

Note: If you have not completed education above the high school level or obtained degrees in areas other than those listed, no response is required.
 A. Computer Science
 B. Computer Engineering
 C. Cybersecurity (e.g., cyber operations, cyber defense, information security)
 D. Electrical Engineering
 E. Applied Mathematics/Statistics/Data Science
 F. Robotics
 G. Artificial Intelligence
 H. Other


5.
Select all cybersecurity-related certifications that you currently have.

Note: Many Entry Track applicants have not yet obtained any cybersecurity-related certifications. If you do not have any cybersecurity-related certifications, no selection is required. If you select "Other," you can specify the cybersecurity-related certification(s) in response to the next question.
 A. Certified Authorization Professional (CAP)
 I. Certified Cloud Security Professional (CCSP)
 J. Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)
 K. Certified Forensic Analyst (GCFA)
 L. Certified Information Security Manager (CISM)
 M. Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA)
 N. Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP)
 O. Certified Penetration Tester (CPT)
 P. Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP)
 Q. Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) Security
 R. CompTIA A+
 S. CompTIA Advanced Security Professional (CASP)
 T. CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CYSA+)
 U. Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator (CHFI)
 V. Cybersecurity Practitioner (CSXP)
 W. EnCase Certified Examiner (EnCE)
 X. Expert Systems Engineering Professional (ESEP)
 Y. GIAC Certified Incident Handler (GCIH)
 Z. GIAC Cyber Threat Intelligence (GCTI)
 AA. GIAC Strategic Planning, Policy, and Leadership (GSTRT)
 AB. Global Industrial Cyber Security Professional (GICSP)
 AC. GIAC Response and Industrial Defense (GRID)
 AD. Information Systems Security Architecture Professional (ISSAP)
 AE. Information Systems Security Engineering Professional (ISSEP)
 AF. Network+
 AG. Offensive Security Certified Expert (OSCE)
 B. Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP)
 C. Offensive Security Exploitation Expert (OSEE)
 D. Offensive Security Web Expert (OSWE)
 E. Offensive Security Wireless Professional (OSWP)
 F. Security+
 G. Systems Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP)
 H. Other


6.
If you selected "Other" in response to the previous question, list the additional cybersecurity-related certification(s) you have.


7.
Select all coding/programming languages in which you are proficient.

Note: Many Entry Track applicants have not yet learned any coding/programming languages. If you are not proficient in any coding/programming languages, no selection is required. If you select "Other," you can specify the language(s) in response to the next question.
 A. C
 B. C#
 C. C++
 D. Go
 E. Java
 F. JavaScript
 G. Kotlin
 H. Perl
 I. PHP
 J. Python
 K. R
 L. Ruby
 M. Rust
 N. Scala
 O. Swift
 P. Other


8.
If you selected "Other" in response to the previous question, specify the additional coding/programming language(s) in which you are proficient.


9.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


10.
If there is a salary range or lowest salary you are willing to accept, you may provide that information.

Note: Response is not required. To learn more about salaries generally available in the DHS Cybersecurity Service at different career levels visit: http://dhscs.usajobs.gov/Benefits


11.
DHS is actively expanding the DHS Cybersecurity Service and creating new jobs across DHS organizations.

Select all the DHS organizations for which you would like to be considered for DHS Cybersecurity Service jobs.
 A. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)
 B. DHS Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 C. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
 D. All Other DHS Organizations


12.
Consider the type of job, in terms of time period and regular work hours, you are willing to accept, and select all responses that apply.
 A. Full-time job (80 hours every 2 weeks) with no defined end date
 B. Part-time job (less than 80 hours every 2 weeks) with no defined end date
 C. Short-term/project work (either part- or full-time) scheduled to last 1 – 3 years


13.
Consider the work arrangements you are willing to accept, and select all responses that apply.

Note: If you are not interested in any of the listed work arrangements, no selection is required.
 A. Telework (you would work some of the time from an approved worksite [e.g., your home] other than the physical location of a DHS facility)
 B. Remote work (you would work most or all of the time from a different geographic area than the physical location of a DHS facility)
 C. Work schedules other than the traditional 5 consecutive 8-hour days per week (Monday – Friday)
 D. Work on weekends
 E. Work at night
 F. Work on shifts or rotating shifts


14.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Chandler, AZ
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Pensacola, FL
 D. Idaho Falls, ID
 E. Stennis Space Center, MS
 F. Arlington, VA
 G. Springfield, VA


15.
Consider whether you are willing to travel away from home as part of your job, and select all responses that apply.

Note: If you are not interested in a job involving travel, no selection is required.
 A. 1 to 5 nights each month
 B. 6 to 10 nights each month
 C. 11 or more nights each month


16.
Are you a current DHS civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


17.
Are you a current or former federal employee?
 Yes
 No


18.
Are you a current or former federal political employee (e.g., Schedule C, Non-career SES, or Presidential Appointee)?
 Yes
 No


19.
May we share your application with others in DHS for positions outside of the DHS Cybersecurity Service?
 Yes
 No


20.
May we share your application with other federal agencies for positions outside of the DHS Cybersecurity Service?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙