Position Title
Prosthetic Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-13053930-26-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C.? 7403(f). Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements for the position of GS-0672, Prosthetic Representative.


2.
Basic Experience and Education requirement : Do you possess the required education or experience for this position?

(1) Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team; or
(2) Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree; or
(3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.

Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a Prosthetic Representative on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:(1) Employees grandfathered into the GS-0672 occupational series as prosthetic representatives may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions(2) Prosthetic Representatives who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.(3) Employees who are retained as a Prosthetic Representative under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a prosthetic representative.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your education and/or experience that qualifies you for this Prosthetic Representative position. Your education must be documented in your transcripts provided.
 Experience: I possess one year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team;
 Education: I possess bachelor’s degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business.
 Experience/Education Combination: I possess equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
 Grandfathering Provision: I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not meet the requirements.


GS-05 Grade Requirement: None beyond the basic requirement.


3.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience and/or education that qualifies you for the GS-05 level. If selected, you may be required to provide a written narrative to support your answer below.
 I possess the basic requirement for this position.
 I do not possess the basic requirement for this position.


GS-07 Grade Requirement: In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled. (DEMONSTRATED IN RESUME). 

In addition to the experience above, the Prosthetic Representative assigned to this position must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities: 1. Ability to understand and apply processes, procedures, regulations, and laws as it applies to purchasing and the provision of prosthetic items/services. 2. Ability to coordinate multiple requests for durable medical equipment (DME), including repairs, services, and benefits. 3. Ability to act as a liaison with and work effectively with health care providers, patients, caregivers and vendors to ensure that the most appropriate device and services are received timely. 4. Ability to monitor contractors and vendors for compliance with contract requirements.


4.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the GS-07 level. If selected, you may be required to provide a written narrative to support your answer below.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled. I can demonstrate the identified knowledge, skills, and abilities.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education that is required to qualify for this position.


GS-09 Grade Requirement: In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled.  (DEMONSTRATED IN RESUME).
OR
Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours may include, but is not limited to, any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.

In addition to the experience and/or education above, the Prosthetic Representative assigned to this position must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities: 1. Knowledge of methods to identify trends and causation factors sufficient to analyze prepared data and gather information to inform and advise management. 2. Ability to organize, prioritize, and monitor actions to ensure timeliness. 3. Ability to understand and articulate the benefits program options available. This includes communicating with patients, caregivers, health care providers and vendors. 4. Ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations. 5. Ability to work effectively with a clinical team and provide recommendations for prosthetic devices.


5.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the GS-09 level. If selected, you may be required to provide a written narrative to support your answer below.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled. I can demonstrate the identified knowledge, skills, and abilities.
 I possess education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master’s or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. I can demonstrate the identified knowledge, skills, and abilities.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education that is required to qualify for this position.


GS-11 Grade Requirement: In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled. (DEMONSTRATED IN RESUME).

In addition to the experience above, the Prosthetic Representative assigned to this position must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities: 1. Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity. 2. Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work. 3. Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels. 4. Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning. 5. Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns. 6. Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements.


6.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the GS-11 level. If selected, you may be required to provide a written narrative to support your answer below.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled. I can demonstrate the identified knowledge, skills, and abilities.
 I do not possess the experience that is required to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙