Position Title
Embedded Integrated Prevention Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12977528 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for submitting your application for Embedded Integrated Prevention Coordinator with Command, Navy Region Northwest.  Please answer all questions and ensure your answers are documented properly in your resume.  All related documentation (transcripts, SF-50, etc) must be uploaded with your application to be considered for this role.  
Duties and responsibilities outlined in this questionnaire and vacancy announcement are not an exhaustive list and other duties may be assigned as needed.


1.
What is your level of knowledge and experience with evidence based prevention programs/activities to prevent destructive/problematic behaviors?
 More than 5 years experience with evidence based prevention programs/activities to prevent destructive/problematic behaviors
 1 to 4 years experience with evidence based prevention programs/activities to prevent destructive/problematic behaviors
 Less than 1 year experience with evidence based prevention programs/activities to prevent destructive/problematic behaviors
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


2.
What is your experience meeting and dealing effectively with diverse groups, organizations and individuals to establish relationships and clear lines of communication?
 More than 5 years experience meeting and dealing effectively with diverse groups, organizations and individuals to establish relationships and clear lines of communication
 1 to 4 years experience meeting and dealing effectively with diverse groups, organizations and individuals to establish relationships and clear lines of communication
 Less than 1 year experience meeting and dealing effectively with diverse groups, organizations and individuals to establish relationships and clear lines of communication
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


3.
What experience do you have delivering high quality customer service to patrons, leadership, and/or internal or external customers?
 More than 5 years delivering high quality customer service to patrons, leadership, and/or internal or external customers
 1 to 4 years delivering high quality customer service to patrons, leadership, and/or internal or external customers
 Less than 1 year delivering high quality customer service to patrons, leadership, and/or internal or external customers
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


4.
How many years of experience do you have providing evidence-based training and education to a wide variety of audiences?
 More than 5 years providing evidence-based training and education to a wide variety of audiences in a DOD position
 More than 5 years providing evidence-based training and education to a wide variety of audiences in the private sector
 1 to 4 years providing evidence-based training and education to a wide variety of audiences in a DOD position
 1 to 4 years providing evidence-based training and education to a wide variety of audiences in the private sector
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


5.
The primary purpose of this position is to serve as a non-clinical trainer that collaborates with the Deployed Resiliency Counselor and the command leadership in the coordination and provision of integrated primary prevention programs and services. This position is responsible for planning, managing, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training, education and outreach for integrated primary prevention programs at the command level. What experience do you have planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training for a diverse group of individuals at various levels of an organization?
 More than 5 years in a DOD position planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training for a diverse group of individuals at various levels of an organization
 1 to 4 years in a DOD position planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training for a diverse group of individuals at various levels of an organization
 More than 5 years in the private sector planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training for a diverse group of individuals at various levels of an organization
 1 to 4 years in the private sector planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training for a diverse group of individuals at various levels of an organization
 Less than 1 year in private sector or DOD planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating training for a diverse group of individuals at various levels of an organization
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


6.
How many years of experience do you have consulting with management to exchange information about work objectives, processes, procedures and policies to provide ideas and suggestions for improvement in a DOD environment?
 More than 5 years experience consulting with management to exchange information
 1 to 4 years experience consulting with management to exchange information
 Less than 1 year experience consulting with management to exchange information
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


7.
The EIPC is skilled in networking and collaborating with military services and has knowledge of military language, customs, and culture to include navigating shipboard dynamics. What experience do you have working in a shipboard environment?
 More than 5 years experience in a shipboard environment
 1 to 4 years experience in a shipboard environment
 Less than 1 year experience in a shipboard environment
 I do not have practical experience in this competency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
This position requires you to be away from home for months at a time in a shipboard environment, which may include limited periods of time without connectivity and email. Are you able to commit to being away for an extended period of time with the potential of having limited contact with friends and/or family?
 Yes
 No


9.
Do you possess a four-year undergraduate degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position, OR a combination of education and/or relevant experience?
 I possess a four-year undergraduate degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines
 I possess a 2-year undergraduate degree with at least 2 years of experience in related field
 I have at least 4-years of related experience.
 I have less than 4 years of experience and/or do not possess a degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙