Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
395-2026-SLR-13022205- NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA ?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not match the criteria above.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?

 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 I am not a current VBA employee and this question does not apply to me.


3.
What is your current grade?



4.
What is the full performance level (highest potential of your current position)?



TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements, in addition to minimum qualifications, in order to be considered. For a GS-12 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-11 grade level, or higher. For a GS-13 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-12 grade level, or higher, by the closing date of this announcement (unless you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority (Schedule A).


5.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level, or higher.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements of occupying a GS-11 grade level or higher for at least 52 weeks (1 year), by the closing date of this announcement.


6.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response.)
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level, or higher.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements of occupying a GS-12 grade level or higher for at least 52 weeks (1 year), by the closing date of this announcement.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


7.
To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as knowledge of basic qualitative and quantitative techniques in order to analyze, evaluate, and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of organizational operations.  Skill in applying communication techniques sufficient to present plans and proposals convincingly and negotiate the same.  This experience may have been gained across all VA business lines.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


8.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as  comprehensive experience with both quantitative and qualitative techniques in order to analyze, evaluate, and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of organizational operations.  Must also demonstrate comprehensive and authoritative communication skills to present and articulate findings to upper-level management; and experience with or understanding of continuous process improvement strategies within the VA.  This experience may have been gained across all VA business lines.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


Your rating is subject to verification based on your resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit AND through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information is grounds for non-selection and/or termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 I do not wish to certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙