Position Title
AI Software Engineer
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-TAL-12971225-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation, see required documents section. If you fail to select at least one eligibility below or you select an eligibility that you do not provide proof of, your application may be marked INELIGIBLE as out of the area of consideration. The full performance level of this position is GS-12.




1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?  Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirements: You must have Information Technology (IT) related experience that demonstrates proficiency in each of the following competencies. Do you have:
1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, considering the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the response below that best describes your education and/or experience qualifying at the GS-07 grade level.

 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 level (or equivalent) providing IT-related experience in the areas of: Assisting with coding, debugging, testing, or modifying application software, scripts, or system components using programming languages or development tools; And Using version control, test scripts, checklists, or documented procedures to support software development, testing, or defect tracking;And Reviewing error logs, code, test results, or system information to identify software issues and document attempted remedies; And Assisting with requirements documentation, user stories, test cases, or demonstrations to confirm that software components meet stated requirements.
 I have one full year graduate level education in a related field (such as: Computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, etc.)
 I have a Bachelor's degree (in a related field) with superior academic achievement as defined in the vacancy announcement.
 I have an equivalent combination of qualifying graduate education and specialized experience that together meets 100 percent of the qualification requirement which qualifies for the GS-7 level.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above descriptions.


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙