Position Title
Student Cooperative - Office of Audit - Retail, Sales, Network Ops, Strategic, and Audit Services
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-25-12787838-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2025 to Sep 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This announcement is open to U.S. Citizens who are students currently enrolled full or part-time in an accredited college or university program, classified academically ranked by semester hours as Sophomore, Junior, Senior, or Graduate student.  All others are ineligible on this announcement. 
Do you meet this eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Carol Stream, IL
 C. Bethesda, MD
 D. Woburn, MA
 E. Arlington, VA


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
CURRENT STUDENT REQUIREMENT:

Are you a current Sophomore, Junior, Senior, or Graduate Student enrolled full or half-time in an accredited college or university program? (You must submit transcripts that show currently or upcoming enrolled)

PLEASE NOTE: These opportunities are only open to current students who are scheduled to graduate no sooner than May 2026.
 Yes
 No


2.
GPA REQUIREMENT:

What is your current GPA on a 4.0 scale? (Your transcripts must reflect your current GPA.)
 3.5 to 4.0
 3.0 to 3.49
 2.75 to 2.99
 2.5 to 2.74
 2.49 and below


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
OFFICE OF AUDIT - DEGREE MAJOR REQUIREMENT:


Are you currently enrolled in an auditing, accounting, or related field (see below list of related degrees) of study in an undergraduate, current undergraduate senior advancing to a graduate program, or graduate degree program and not graduating before May 2026?


Additional Auditor (0511) Related and Accepted Majors:
Business Related, including but not limited to:
Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to:
Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to:
Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 Yes
 No


4.
DEGREE/MAJOR LISTING:

What degree are you currently seeking? If you have a concentration, please list that here in addition to the degree.


5.
SOFTWARE/APPLICATION REQUIREMENT:


Do you have experience with computer software applications such as Office 365, Microsoft Office, Word, Excel, etc.? (Your resume must reflect where, when, and how you gained this experience.)
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
In-Office Requirement:

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


7.
REMINDER: APPLICATION DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENT


Documentation Reminder:

This announcement has specific documentation requirements for Student Cooperative applicants. Please ensure you upload ALL required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and each is uploaded and assigned to the appropriate document type. For example:

This announcement requires Transcripts from an accredited college or university. Ensure you upload your Transcripts in the appropriate Transcripts document type. Failure to upload the required documents will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.


Here are the required documents for this announcement:
 
Resume
Transcripts

There will be optional document types that you can upload as well.


Please acknowledge you have read the above reminder and understand the document requirements to be considered for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
SELF-CERTIFICATION:

Your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation, and later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify the accuracy of your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure they accurately represent your current level of experience and capability, and select the response below that best applies. Failure to certify accuracy below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation, or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to this questionnaire, my rating maybe lowered or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I choose not to certify the accuracy of my response and application materials, and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙