Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
323-26-AA-13053550-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Program Specialist with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), Jackson Regional Benefit Office. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrate capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent Jackson, MS Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) Regional Office employees. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent Jackson, MS Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) Regional Office employees and current/permanent VA employees who are CTAP eligible.  You are required to submit documentation (SF-50) to verify your eligibility.


1.
GS-12: Are you a current permanent employee or a current/permanent VA employees who is CTAP eligible with Jackson, MS Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) Regional Office?
 Yes, I am you a current permanent employee with Jackson, MS Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) Regional Office.
 No, but I am eligible as a CTAP eligible with documentation submitted as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Please select the appropriate response below for GS-12 grade level.


2.
GS-12: To qualify for the GS-12 grade level, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 Yes, I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher
 No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 level (or above).


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience.


3.
GS-12: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-12 Program Specialist position.

NOTE: Specialized experience must demonstrate: At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience may include but are not limited to the following: Experience analyzing and evaluating reports; experience developing and maintaining budget for program areas; effective communication skills across various audiences.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level as described above.
 My experience is not reflected above therefore I do not meet the requirements and will not be considered.


Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


4.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙