Position Title
Lead Management Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCNA-26-12979878-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current Office of Chief Counsel, IRS employee within the Business Unit specified on the announcement who is eligible as a Status Candidate or currently serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment?

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lead Management Analyst position with IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit you application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Lead Management Analyst at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Which of the following best describes your experience conducting studies that are complex (e.g., requiring multiple analytical techniques from a variety of data sources)?
 I have taken relevant coursework as part of a degree program and have performed these types of studies at work with little to no supervision and/or in an expert role for more than three years.
 I have taken relevant certificate or professional development course work and performed these types of studies at work with little to no supervision and/or in an expert role for more than three years.
 I have performed these types of studies at work with little to no supervision and/or in an expert role for more than three years.
 I have some experience with these types of studies at work independently or as part of a team, and I have taken relevant certificate or professional development coursework.
 I have some experience with these types of studies at work independently or as part of a team.
 I have taken coursework on how to perform these types of studies.
 I have little or no experience or training performing these types of studies.


3.
Please select all types of methodologies, analyses, and projects for which you are at an advanced level: (Select all that apply.)
 A. Statistical analysis (e.g., linear regressions)
 B. Cost projections
 C. Cost-benefit analysis
 D. Analyzing survey results (e.g., determining statistical significance)
 E. Focus groups
 F. Literature review
 G. Other types of analysis not listed above
 H. None of the above


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating across organizational lines to gather information necessary to develop or implement key priorities.

 I routinely coordinate with principals at senior management levels both within and outside of my organization.
 I routinely coordinate with senior management principals inside my organization.
 I have occasionally reached outside of my organization to stakeholders in peer roles.
 I mostly coordinate my organization to gather information and resources, typically with my peers.
 I mostly coordinate within my own division or workgroup.


5.
Select the areas in which you have a high level of experience, meaning you are considered a subject-matter expert either independently or on a team (Select all that apply):

 A. Finance/Budget
 B. Advanced Data Analysis and Visualization
 C. Systems Coordination/IT
 D. Human Capital (including engagement and performance management)
 E. Enterprise Risk Management
 F. Strategic Planning
 G. Business Continuity
 H. None of the above


6.
Select the statement that best describe your experience implementing new policies and programs.
 I have led or co-led implementation of new major programs that are nationwide in scope.
 I have been part of a team that has implemented major new nationwide programs.
 I have independently or as part of a team administered existing programs at a nationwide level.
 I have independently or as part of a team administered major programs within my office or Division.
 I have served on teams that have influenced program implementation.


7.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience developing policies and standards related to budget or resource allocation on an office-wide basis.

 I have routinely developed and discussed recommendations related to major(office- or agency-wide) resource decisions with senior management and often influence the outcome of such discussions.
 I have presented recommendations related to major (office- or agency-wide) resource decisions to senior managers on more than one occasion per year.
 I have presented complex information to my manager or members of management on discussions of sensitive issues relating to important resource or other strategic decisions.
 During meetings, I have discussed technical issues or served as a point of contact for information.
 I have some experience presenting technical information
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks.


8.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience developing human capital/employee-focused programs.

 I have routinely developed and discussed recommendations related to major (office- or agency-wide) human capital/employee programs with senior management and often influence the outcome of such discussions.
 I have presented recommendations related to major (office- or agency-wide) human capital/employee programs to senior managers occasionally.
 I have presented complex information to my manager or members of management on discussions of sensitive issues relating to important resource or other strategic decisions.
 During meetings, I have discussed technical issues or served as a point of contact for information.
 I have some experience presenting technical information.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks.


9.
Select the statement that best describe your experience analyzing and reporting on performance relative to strategic goals.
 I have taken coursework on it as part of a degree program and have performed these types of studies at work with little to no supervision and/or in an expert role for more than three years.
 I have taken certificate or professional development coursework on it and performed these types of studies at work with little to no supervision and/or in an expert role for more than three years.rs.
 I have performed these types of studies at work with little to no supervision and/or in an expert role for more than three years.
 I have some experience with these types of studies at work independently or as part of a team, and I have taken certificate or professional development coursework on it.
 I have some experience with these types of studies at work independently or as part of a team.
 I have taken coursework on how to perform these types of studies.
 I have little or no experience or training performing these types of studies.


10.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience communicating recommendations on major strategic management or financial decisions to senior management.

 I have routinely discussed or presented recommendations related to major (office- or agency-wide) strategic decisions with senior management and often influence the outcome of such discussions.
 I have presented recommendations related to major (office- or agency-wide) strategic decisions to senior managers occasionally.
 I have presented complex information to my manager or members of management on discussions of sensitive issues relating to important strategic decisions.
 During meetings, I have discussed technical issues or served as a point of contact for information.
 I have some experience presenting technical information.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks.


11.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in interpreting and communicating complex technical information?
 I have conveyed highly technical information (for example, results of a complex quantitative analysis) to broad audiences at a nationwide level (including senior level management) with little guidance in a manner that was easy to understand.
 I have conveyed highly technical information (for example, results of a complex quantitative analysis) to small audiences including senior level management with little guidance in a manner that was easy to understand.
 I have developed briefing papers and/or talking points on complex, technical topics for senior managers to deliver.
 I have drafted technical information (for example, policy documents) which, after review, is presented to senior management
 I have a high level of business communication capabilities and present documents that are error-free.
 None of the above.


12.
Which functions have you used to process data within spreadsheets software (e.g., Microsoft Excel)? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Creating pivot-tables
 B. Using look-ups
 C. Creating macros
 D. Creating customized graphs (e.g., control charts)
 E. Formulas like sum/average
 F. None of the above


13.
In which types of software programs are you an advanced user? (Select all that apply)

 A. Web-based collaboration software (e.g., SharePoint)
 B. Spreadsheets software (e.g., Microsoft Excel)
 C. Project tracking software (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 D. Database software (e.g., Microsoft Access)
 E. Statistical software (e.g., STATA, SPSS)
 F. Programming tools (e.g., Business Objects, SQL)
 G. Data visualization software (e.g., Tableau)
 H. Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint)
 I. None of the above


14.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙