Position Title
HEALTH TECHNICIAN (OPHTHALMOLOGY)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12906063-26-JMB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Employer name and complete address; Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); and Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. 

Transcript Reminder - If you are using Experience and Education to qualify at the GS-5 level or above then there is a minimum requirement of unofficial transcripts or an appropriate course listing must be submitted with your application. Applications will not be considered without appropriate transcripts.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: I am proficient in spoken and written English. [Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.]
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement
Experience: One year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician.
OR,
Education: Two years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associate's degree in a health care related degree.
OR,
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
Examples are listed below:
Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school; or Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces; or Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting.
Do you meet the basic requirements listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education beyond high-school?
Name of Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, degree, etc.)
Month and Year conferred


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Certification
All applicants must be certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO).The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).

Are you a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO)?
(You must upload a picture of COA Certification as part of the application package.)
 Yes
 No


5.
Provide the following information regarding your Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA).
Full Name as it appears on the Certificate
COA Date Active
Complete Certificate number
Expiration date


Grade Determinations.
In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the salary grade of candidates. 
Knowledge of Current Health Technician (Ophthalmology) Practice. To be creditable, the experience must have demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with a health care field or knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the current occupation. Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment in the health care field. 
Quality of Experience. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to Health Technician (Ophthalmology) experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.
Part-time Experience. Part time experience as a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) is creditable according to its relationship to the full time work week. For example, a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) employed 20 hours per week, or on a ½ time basis, would receive 4 one full-time work week credit for each two weeks of service.


Employees at this grade level serve in a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) Entry level position and are trainee in nature. The entry level performs limited routine assignments under daily direct supervision. Deviations from unanticipated problems and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or help.

Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-6 (Developmental Level 1) 
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.
The Health Technician (Ophthalmology) at this level operates and monitors commonly used equipment performing basic screening procedures. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, complex patients and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or assistance.

Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-7 (Developmental Level 2)
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level.
At this level, the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) Performs basic imaging testing such as corneal topography; external photography; performs basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, complex patients and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or assistance.

Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-8 (Full Performance Level)
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level.
This is considered to be the full performance level for this assignment. The Health Technician (Ophthalmology) at this level performs a range of standard, but complex, diagnostic procedures with responsibility for checking calibration of instruments prior to the procedure.
 
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
The entry level performs limited routine assignments under daily direct supervision. Deviations from unanticipated problems and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or help. Obtains and records vital signs including blood pressure, pulse, and glucose levels. Participates in performance of quality assurance activities such as staff meetings, mandatory educational in-services.

Do you have 1 year or more of experience?
 Yes
 No


7.
Developmental Level 1 - GS 6
The Health Technician (Ophthalmology) at this level operates and monitors commonly used equipment performing basic screening procedures. Assists ophthalmology staff by obtaining an accurate medical and ophthalmic history, measuring and recording visual acuity, administering anesthetic eye drops, performing basic tonometry, estimating the anterior chamber depth and recording a simple spectacle reading through automated lensometry.

Do you have 1 year or more of experience at this level of Developmental Training?
 Yes
 No


8.
Developmental Level 1 -GS 6
The KSAs expected of the GS-5 level, the following KSAs are expected at the GS-6 assignment:
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
i. Knowledge of general outpatient clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment;
ii. Ability to obtain, document and record demographic and medical information from patients in order to develop an accurate medical record;
iii. Ability to use basic ophthalmic equipment;
iv. Knowledge of basic disinfection of non-critical reusable medical equipment.

Do you have 1 year or more working experience with the above KSAs?
 Yes
 No


9.
Developmental Level 2- GS 7
The KSAs expected of the GS-6 level, the following KSAs are expected at the GS-7 assignment:
i. Knowledge of anatomy and function of the eye and basic ocular pharmacology;
ii. Knowledge of outpatient eye care policies and procedures in a health care environment;
iii. Ability to use basic ophthalmic diagnostic equipment to perform preliminary ocular testing;
iv. Ability to perform minor extraocular surgical assisting; and
v. Ability to provide eye care patient education.

Do you have 1 year or more experiece in these task?
 Yes
 No


10.
Developmental Level 2 -GS 7
The following clinical duties and responsibilities are expected at the GS-7 assignment:
i. Triages patient phone calls or requests;
ii. Ensures exam rooms are stocked with adequate supplies;
iii. Instructs patients on administration of eye drops and post-operative instructions;
iv. Accurately measures, compares, and evaluates pupillary responses;
v. Administers eye drops to dilate pupils;
vi. Performs basic color vision screening;
vii. Performs basic visual field testing (using Amsler grid or automated equipment).
viii. Performs basic imaging testing such as corneal topography; external photography;
ix. Performs basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders.
x. Assists the ophthalmologist during minor ophthalmic surgical procedures and is adept at applying sterile technique and infection control procedures.
xi. Performs autorefractor to determine spectacle prescription.

Do you have more then 1 year of working experience in the above duties?
 Yes
 No


11.
Full Performance Level GS 8
Knowledge of Current Health Technician (Ophthalmology) Practice. Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment in the health care field.
(Please make sure this is indicated on the resume with beginning and ending time with a total number of hours worked.
For Example: Jan 1, 2022 to Aug 1, 2023 40 hours per week) In addition to the KSAs expected of the GS-7 level, the following KSAs are expected at the GS-8 assignment:
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting including preparation of the surgical field
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye
Knowledge of optics

Do you have at least one year experience equivalent to the GS-07 Grade level? (Must be reflected in resume)
 Yes
 No


12.
Full Performance Level GS 8
The Health Technician performs difficult ophthalmic technical duties with considerable latitude for the exercise of independent judgment.
Duties include but are not limited to:
Refractometry utilizing retinoscopy to determine spectacle prescription
Kinetic visual field testing (Goldmann)
Intraocular pressure measurements by applanation tonometry and other current methods
Pupil evaluation recording pupil size, shape, symmetry, reaction to light and accommodation, and any abnormalities, including relative afferent pupillary defect
Basic slit lamp biomicroscopy evaluation to check for abnormalities prior to dilation (i.e.: anterior chamber depth/iris anomalies).
The technician may perform advanced color vision testing of the entire visual spectrum to detect complex color vision defects such as monochromats, dichromats and anomalous trichromats.
Measures eyeglass prescriptions using manual lensometer, recording sphere, cylinder, axis and prism in both plus and minus cylinder.
Are you able to compete the above duties effectively and are they demonstrated in your resume?
 Yes
 No


13.
Full Performance Level GS 8
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the KSAs below:
1. Knowledge of universal precautions for safety and prevention of cross contamination.
2. Knowledge of sterility principles in regard to instrumentation.
3. Advanced knowledge of event-related packaging in regard to sterility.
4. Working knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, microbiology, medical conditions and procedures.
5. Ability to read and interpret written instructions and procedures.
6. Detailed knowledge of complex surgical instruments used in operating room and clinic settings.
7. Ability to assemble specialty operating room and clinic instrument sets.
8. In-depth knowledge of sterilization and cleaning equipment.
9. Ability to communicate both orally and in writing to convey information and thoughts to others.
10. Ability to plan and project staffing needs and requirements.
11. Ability to manage, interact and deal with individuals of varying backgrounds.
12. Ability to direct staff and manage tasks to be completed.
13. Ability to oversee and supervise all aspects of decontamination, preparation, sterilization, monitoring and distribution of RME
14. Ability to perform a full range of supervisory duties, including assigning, planning and evaluating work, recommending awards, approving leave, identifying training needs, and resolving staff issues.

Do you have 1 year or more of working experience with the above KSAs?
 Yes
 No


14.
Full Performance Level GS 8
Performs patient screening and triage emergencies identifying ocular emergencies. Performs patient screening and telephone triage for immediate care. Assists during clinic-based ophthalmic surgery, including revision of wounds, biopsies of the eyelid lesions, cultures of conjunctiva, or cornea; reformation of anterior chamber, evacuation of hyphema, repositioning of corneal endothelial grafts, intra-vitreous injections, and laser surgical procedures.

How many years of work experience do you have in this environment?


14a.
Briefly explain an example of an emergency situation you encountered? How did you assist in the solution to the emergency care? Explain any tests, and or equipment used in the solution. 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙