Position Title
Policy Analyst (Trade)
Agency
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
Announcement Number
EOP-USTR-12987154-26-JD-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
1.
Applicants must demonstrate at least one year of experience with one or more of the following fields:

A. Sub-Saharan Africa - Developing and advancing trade and investment policy initiatives with respect to Sub-Saharan African countries, including preparing negotiation strategies and policy positions, engaging foreign governments and stakeholders, and analyzing region specific trade and investment laws and regulations.
B. Agricultural Trade - Developing policy positions and preparing economic analyses and policy options papers on agricultural trade issues, including tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade; and supporting the negotiation, implementation, and oversight of agricultural trade agreements.
C. China, Mongolia and Taiwan - Developing and advancing trade and investment policy initiatives with respect to China, Mongolia, and Taiwan, including preparing negotiation strategies and policy positions, engaging foreign governments and stakeholders, and analyzing region specific trade and investment laws and regulations.
D. Environment and Natural Resources - Participating in trade-related environmental negotiations; researching and analyzing foreign environment laws and regulations; and contributing to development of trade policy positions related to environmental protection and natural resource management.
E. Innovation and Intellectual Property - Researching and analyzing intellectual property laws and treaties; participating in negotiations regarding intellectual property protection and enforcement; developing trade policies regarding intellectual property.
F. Labor Affairs - Participating in labor-related policy discussions or negotiations; analyzing foreign labor laws and practices, and international labor standards; and contributing to development of policy positions addressing labor standards and workers' rights in the context of trade commitments.
G. WTO & Multilateral Affairs - Addressing trade issues involving subsidies and non-market policies and practices, including those related to state-owned enterprises; supporting negotiations and policy development to address unfair trade practices.

Which of the above topics do you have experience in? Note: This experience must be reflected in your resume.
 Sub-Saharan Africa - Developing and advancing trade and investment policy initiatives with respect to Sub-Saharan African countries, including preparing negotiation strategies and policy positions, engaging foreign governments and stakeholders, and analyzing region specific trade and investment laws and regulations.
 Agricultural Trade - Developing policy positions and preparing economic analyses and policy options papers on agricultural trade issues, including tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade; and supporting the negotiation, implementation, and oversight of agricultural trade agreements.
 China, Mongolia and Taiwan - Developing and advancing trade and investment policy initiatives with respect to China, Mongolia, and Taiwan, including preparing negotiation strategies and policy positions, engaging foreign governments and stakeholders, and analyzing region specific trade and investment laws and regulations.
 Environment and Natural Resources - Participating in trade-related environmental negotiations; researching and analyzing foreign environment laws and regulations; and contributing to development of trade policy positions related to environmental protection and natural resource management.
 Innovation and Intellectual Property - Researching and analyzing intellectual property laws and treaties; participating in negotiations regarding intellectual property protection and enforcement; developing trade policies regarding intellectual property.
 Labor Affairs - Participating in labor-related policy discussions or negotiations; analyzing foreign labor laws and practices, and international labor standards; and contributing to development of policy positions addressing labor standards and workers' rights in the context of trade commitments.
 WTO & Multilateral Affairs - Addressing trade issues involving subsidies and non-market policies and practices, including those related to state-owned enterprises; supporting negotiations and policy development to address unfair trade practices.
 I do not possess experience in any of the above fields.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the specialized experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Trade Policy Analyst at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the public/private or Federal Service. Please select only one answer.
 I possess at least one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level performing all of the following: Participating in negotiations on trade issues or engagements with foreign governments with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Building coalitions and consensus among diverse groups and views on trade or policy issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Independently developing policy positions on trade or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Researching and providing analysis for laws and regulations of foreign countries related to trade or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Acting as a subject matter expert in team projects related to trade policy or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; and Communicating the results of research and analysis and advocating policy positions on trade policy or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1, both verbally and in writing.
 I do not possess all of the specialized experience as described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the specialized experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Trade Policy Analyst at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the public/private or Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level performing all of the following: Leading international negotiations or engagements, such as with foreign governments, on trade policy or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Building coalitions and consensus among diverse groups and views on trade or policy issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Leading or coordinating the development policy positions on trade or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Compiling and analyzing research related to laws and regulations of foreign countries related to trade or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; Leading and planning time-sensitive team projects across agencies (or similar complex organizations) on trade policy or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1; and Communicating the results of research and analysis on trade policy or issues with respect to one or more of the topics listed in question 1, both verbally and in writing, to Cabinet/Subcabinet-level or C-suite-level executives.
 I do not possess all of the specialized experience as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙