Position Title
Supervisory Law Enforcement Officer (Patrol Captain)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-WO-LEI-12954089-FS-RS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.


1.
Are you a current Forest Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Forest Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former employee of the US Forest Service who is claiming eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act and:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
most recent period of qualifying service was with the US Forest Service; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,if you are no longer employed by the US Forest Service, have been separated for no more than two years, and whose most recent separation was for reasons other than misconduct or performance?
Note:  Service must be in the competitive service and have been at a successful level of performance or better.   Part-time and intermittent service will be credited only for time actually worked.  Non-pay status (such as LWOP) is credited for up to six months in a calendar year; anything beyond six months is not credited.  Applicants are responsible for providing sufficient information/documentation to determine if the 24 month criteria is met.




 Yes
 No


5.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you hear about this job opportunity? Please select one and specify if required:
 Other Recruiting Website
 Career Fair
 Newspaper
 Advertisement
 Professional Journal
 Agency Website
 Agency Employee
 Other Federal Agency
 College or University
 Other


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



5.
When we complete our selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources staff at additional federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.


6.
Select up to 3 duty locations.
 A. Missoula, Montana
 B. Fort Collins, Colorado
 C. Glenwood Springs, Colorado
 D. Laramie, Wyoming
 E. Durango, Colorado
 F. Del Norte, Colorado
 G. Phoenix, Arizona
 H. South Jordan, Utah (Northern Utah Zone)
 I. Cedar City, Utah
 J. Richfield, Utah (Southern Utah Zone)
 K. Placerville, California
 L. Eureka, California
 M. Alturas, California
 N. Susanville, California
 O. Vancouver, Washington
 P. Wenatchee, Washington
 Q. Cleveland, Tennessee
 R. Montgomery, Alabama


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Supervisory Law Enforcement Officer, Patrol Captain GS-1801-11/12/13 positions. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Law Enforcement Instructions: This position authorizes the incumbent to carry a firearm. Any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor of domestic violence cannot lawfully possess a firearm or ammunition (Title 18, U.S.C., Section 922(g)(9)). A "misdemeanor crime of domestic violence" is generally defined under the statute as any offense involving the use or attempted use of physical force, or the threatened use of a deadly weapon, committed by the victim's current or former domestic partner, parent, or guardian. The term "convicted" as defined in the statute, excludes any person whose conviction has been expunged, set-aside, or pardoned or any person whose civil rights have been restored unless the pardon, expunging or restoration of civil rights expressly prohibits the possession of firearms or ammunition. Candidates who have been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence within the meaning of the referenced statutes are not qualified for this position. Candidates under consideration will be required to certify whether they have ever been convicted of such an offense. False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment.


1.
Firearms Question (Screen-Out): Does your background include any of the following?
 I have been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence within the meaning of the reference statutes stated above.
 I am subject to a court-ordered restraining order from harassing, stalking, or threating an intimate partner or child.
 I have been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.
 I am a fugitive from justice.
 I am an unlawful user of, or addicted to, any controlled substance (as defined as a drug or other substance, or immediate precursor, included in schedule I, II, III, IV, or V of Section 812, Part B, Sub-chapter, I, Chapter 13, Title 21, of U.S. Code).
 I am an illegal alien, or I have been admitted to the United States under a non-immigration visa.
 I have been adjudicated as a mental defective or have you been committed to a mental institution.
 I have been discharged from the United States Armed Forces under dishonorable conditions.
 I have renounced my United States citizenship.
 I have outstanding warrants for my arrest.
 I have a physical condition that would cause me to be a hazard to myself or others.
 None of the above.


2.
Maximum Age Requirement (Screen-Out): From the choices below select the response that best describes how you meet the maximum age requirement for this position.
 I am under the age of 37.
 I am less than the age 37 after subtracting the months of Federal Service worked in a primary or secondary firefighter/law enforcement position.
 I am a veteran preference eligible, older than the age 37 and I am requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement.
 I am eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, older than 37, and requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement.
 None of the above, the responses above do not apply to me, or I do not meet the age requirement for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Selective Placement Factor (Screen Out): I have at least three years of service in positions that have been approved for Rigorous or Primary Law Enforcement retirement coverage.
 Yes
 No


4.
Provide the dates (MM/YYYY) for when you met the Primary/Rigorous Law Enforcement retirement coverage requirement.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and/or education. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have one year of experience equivalent to at least the GL-09. Specialized experience is defined as 3 or more of the following: 1. Assisting senior officers by gathering data, reviewing draft law enforcement policies, and summarizing impacts on National Forest System operations to support program planning and decision making. 2. Supporting multi jurisdictional enforcement efforts by sharing intelligence, coordinating logistics, and participating in joint patrols with federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement partners. 3. Conducting preliminary investigations of public use incidents and resource violations, secured and documented crime scenes, collected evidence, interviewed witnesses, and prepared investigative reports, assisted agents with complex cases under guidance. 4. Maintaining investigative records, entered data into tracking systems, monitored trends, and ensured accountability of assigned law enforcement equipment; supported budgeting by tracking routine operational costs. 5. Assisting with public safety planning for recreation events and high use areas; identified law enforcement concerns in field operations, recommended preventive measures, and helped prepare materials for cooperative agreements and search and rescue coordination.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and education (beyond what is required for a master’s degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading toward a Ph.D.). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your experience. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. . Specialized experience is defined as 3 or more of the following: 1. Assisting in developing, reviewing, and recommending updates to law enforcement policies, guidelines, and operational procedures that supported public safety and land management objectives while ensuring consistency with agency directives, regulatory requirements, and program goals. 2. Participating in the evaluation of law enforcement and public safety techniques, operational methods, and program needs, providing input for project work plans, identifying resource requirements, and assisting with monitoring program costs to maintain operations within approved budget levels. 3. Coordinating with Federal, state, local, and tribal agencies to support planning and execution of enforcement and compliance activities on public lands, contributing to multi jurisdictional operations, special events planning, and interagency communication to ensure effective public safety outcomes. 4. Supporting the development and administration of cooperative agreements and interagency partnerships, including gathering operational needs, preparing documentation, serving as a point of contact for district level coordination, and assisting with recommendations for cooperative funding allocations. 5. Maintaining and monitoring law enforcement program equipment, case tracking data, and operational records, ensuring accurate documentation, analyzing data for trends or emerging compliance issues, and using the information to recommend adjustments to patrol or enforcement priorities.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


7.
Select the statement that best describes your experience. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have one year experience equivalent to a least the GS-12. Specialized experience is defined as 3 or more of the following: 1. Assisting in developing and evaluating law enforcement policies, operational procedures, and program guidelines by reviewing field data, identifying gaps or emerging issues, and offering technical recommendations to improve public safety operations and support resource protection programs across a forest or zone. 2. Independently conducted criminal and regulatory investigations involving violations of Federal laws on public lands, including crime scene processing, evidence collection, witness and suspect interviews, case documentation, and preparation of investigative reports used in U.S. Magistrate Court or by senior special agents. Assisted in portions of felony investigations under the technical supervision of a senior criminal investigator. 3. Coordinating patrol operations and investigative activities with Federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies, supporting the planning and execution of multi jurisdictional operations, special events, and search and rescue missions. Contributed to interagency briefings, shared intelligence, and ensured cohesive enforcement efforts across organizational boundaries. 4. Supporting law enforcement program administration by assisting in identifying budget needs, managing program equipment inventories, reviewing enforcement data, and analyzing case trends to recommend patrol priorities, preventive strategies, and resource allocations. Ensured accurate and timely entry of investigative and enforcement data into required reporting systems. 5. Providing technical advice, training support, and operational guidance to officers and forest staff, helping interpret policies, apply legal authorities, and address public safety issues arising from recreation management, timber operations, and other resource activities. Contributed to developing corrective or preventive measures to reduce law enforcement risks in project planning and field operations.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


8.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent, or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “NO” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙