Position Title
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12985938-AR-26-528 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***

 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-09
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-7. Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc. Experience involving the control of supply stocks and accounting for equipment. Knowledge of supply functions, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Experience in cost estimates, budgets, or funding management. Experience conducting extensive searches for required information; reconstruct records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support. Experience requiring person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. (MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences, if using experience to qualify for this position/grade)

-OR-

B) master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (MUST submit transcripts with application, if using education to qualify for this position/grade)

Do you meet one of the above requirements for this position and grade?
 Yes, I meet the requirements in option A.
 Yes, I meet the requirements in option B.
 No, I do not meet the requirements in option A or B.


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-11
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-9. Experience supervising and/or managing supply personnel and a variety of supply functions. Knowledge on the entire inventory management supply system. Experience coordinating with other organizations on complex and controversial supply issues. Experience providing advice and guidance on supply regulations to upper levels of management regarding supply functions. (MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences, if using experience to qualify for this position/grade)

-OR-

B) Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (MUST submit transcripts with application, if using education to qualify for this position/grade)

Do you meet one of the above requirements for this position and grade?
 Yes, I meet the requirements in option A.
 Yes, I meet the requirements in option B.
 No, I do not meet the requirements in option A or B.


5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E4 - E9; Warrant WO1 - CW5; Officer O1 - O3)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


6.
What is your current military rank?


7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙