Position Title
Operations Clerk (Youth Programs)
Agency
Pacific Air Forces
Announcement Number
26-9KFSYY809711 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse or unmarried child of a member (sponsor) of the U.S. Armed Forces or US Civilian employee (sponsor) of a U.S. Government Agency (including NAF activities who either: (a) have not passed their 21st birthday, (b) is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before that birthday or (c) has not passes their 23rd birthday and is enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution of higher learning? If claiming yes, please upload a copy of your sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders listing you by name.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a spouse of an active duty military member? A military spouse is defined as the wife or husband of an active duty member of the US Armed Forces, including the US Coast Guard and the full time National Guard or Reserves. For the purposes of this preference, the marriage must have occurred PRIOR to the service member's relocation via a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the military sponsor's new duty station. If claiming yes, a copy of your Sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders (along with proof of marriage if applicant's name does not appear on sponsor's orders) must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires regular contact with children under the age of 18 and a favorable fitness determination to do so. Are you willing to undergo a specific initial background check, investigation, and periodic re-verification check of multiple agency records to obtain and maintain a favorable fitness determination to occupy a position having regular contact with children?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain current record of immunization. Are you willing and able to submit to immunization screenings, undergo vaccinations including annual influenza vaccinations, and provide evidence of immunizations?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Air Force Non-appropriated Fund (NAF). This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for the position of a Operations Clerk (Youth Programs)  NF-0303-2.

Carefully read the following questions and select the statements that best describe your experience and/or education which demonstrate your ability to meet the requirements of this position. Your resume must support the responses to the questionnaire. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating. 



1.

This position requires the incumbent meet the following qualifications:

General Experience: 2 years administrative experience. Knowledge of general office automation software, practices and procedures. Experience with demonstrated arithmetic aptitude and ability.
Accuracy and attention to detail. 
Knowledge and experience in receipt, disbursement, examination, deposit, or other processing of cash and payment items.

or

Education: Undergraduate Associates or Bachelor's degree education with a major study in general education (Transcripts must be attached to the application prior to the closing of this announcement.)

Please select the statement which describes the qualifying experience and/or education you possess.

 I possess the general experience as stated above.
 I meet the educational requirements and have either an Associates or a Bachelors.
 I do not possess the general experience and do not meet the educational requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Certification Statement: By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙