Position Title
SUPPLY TECHNICIAN (T32 Merit)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13011968-AR-26-191 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard. (Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/ MOS. *



Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
- Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
- Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste the PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
- Employer's name and address
- Supervisor's name and contact information
- Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
- Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
- Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
- Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
- High school graduation date, if applicable
- AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement OR 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of at least GS06. Knowledge of governing supply regulations, policies, procedures, and instructions applicable to the specific assignment. Experience conducting searches for required information; reconstruct records for supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for activities involving specialized or unique supplies, equipment, and parts. Experience performing various aspects of supply specialist work based on practical knowledge of standard procedures, where assignments include individual case problems related to segments in one or more major areas of supply management. Experience which required person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. Consistent with the grade level determining duties in the position description, higher grade level specialized experience may include experience controlling supply stocks and accounting for equipment, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Completing complex supply transactions; and/or providing supply operations support. Experience coordinating with other organizations on complex and controversial supply issues. Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc. Knowledge on the entire inventory management supply system. Experience providing advice and guidance on supply regulations to upper levels of management regarding supply functions.
 Yes
 No


5.
Does your experience, training and resume support the General Experience criteria below?
Experience, education, or training in a variety of operations or situations concerned with substance or content of supply actions, requiring ability to decide course of action to take, considering the circumstances or conditions encountered. Knowledge of basic or commonly applied rules, procedures, or operations such as, filling out, posting, filing, controlling, or coding documents and/or transactions. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


6.
In detail, explain your knowledge of requisitions, supporting documents and reference material to perform material coordination storage management responsibility for special programs, maintenance, and production shops.


7.
In detail, explain your knowledge of established supply regulations, policies, procedures, and other instructions applicable to the specific assignment.


8.
In detail explain your knowledge of all phases of Depot Level Repairable (DLR)/Class 9 (CLIX) repair/repairable items procurement and returns program.


9.
In detail, explain your knowledge to conduct extensive and exhaustive searches for required information to reconstruct records for complex supply transactions.


10.
For any responses where you selected "Yes", "C" I have performed this task on the job, "D"- I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee or "E- I am considered an expert in performing this task" identify where in your resume this experience is substantiated. (Please limit your response to no more than 500 words.)


11.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙