Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCSL-26-13007109-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current Office of Chief Counsel, IRS employee within the Business Unit specified on the announcement who is eligible as a Status Candidate or currently serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment?

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07  level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


2.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management Analyst position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Management Analyst at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. Qualifying fields of study include: Public Administration, Management, and Finance. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.).
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.).
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience conducting management studies, evaluating program efficiency, or developing project plans to meet organizational goals?
 I assist in gathering operational data and tracking minor project tasks under close supervision
 I independently conduct studies of management problems, draft recommendations for program modifications (such as remedial action for the ACC), and develop detailed plans tailored to different Branch Chiefs' requirements.
 I lead complex organization-wide program evaluations, negotiate structural system changes with executive leadership, and establish national operational metrics.
 I have no experience in this area.


3.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience analyzing workload trends, developing staffing models, or compiling metrics for executive performance reports
 I compile and input standard performance metrics into a tracking system and escalate obvious backlogs to my supervisor.
 I independently analyze workload data trends, develop staffing models to forecast where work volumes will shift, and compile mid-year and year-end metrics for required SES performance goals reports.
 I design enterprise-wide workforce planning methodologies, direct the strategic allocation of personnel budgets, and author agency-wide performance tracking standards.
 I have no experience in this area.


4.
Which of the following software applications or database tracking systems do you have independent experience utilizing, validating, or generating reports from? Select all that apply.
 A. Microsoft Word or other word processing software
 B. Concur or other travel management
 C. Microsoft Access or other data management software
 D. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software
 E. Microsoft Outlook or other email and calendar application
 F. Concur Gov
 G. eCITE
 H. Electronic Files Setup
 I. None of the above.


5.
Select the option that best describes your ability to simultaneously plan, organize, and prioritize a variety of work assignments.


 I have experience that required an ability to monitor and track priorities to meet imposed deadlines, setting own priorities, planning, and coordinating activities based on established office procedures supervisors.
 I have experience setting own priorities and tracking deadlines for superiors in carrying out and coordinating a variety of assigned activities.
 I have experience that required performing duties with strict timelines.
 I have experience prioritizing individual personal assignments only.
 I have no experience in this area.


6.
Which of the following statements best describes your technical experience monitoring, evaluating, and administering automated management tracking systems such as eCITE, or Electronic Files.
 I have basic training on database systems but have not applied it professionally in a job.
 I enter tracking data and run standard, predefined reports under close supervision.
 I independently troubleshoot system issues, validate database entry accuracy, generate custom trend reports, and assist users with system setting changes.
 I serve as a principal point of contact or super-user, managing database security, resolving complex system failures, and advising senior information technology staff on production changes.
 I have no experience in this area.


7.
Which of the following statements best reflects your experience resolving post-production system issues, identifying database errors, and ensuring user compliance after a system change?
 I notify a supervisor when an automated report displays an error message and wait for instructions before adjusting my data entries
 I independently contact database users after a new IRS Support Request goes into production to identify difficulties, implement necessary technical corrections, and ensure users understand the production fixes.
 I serve as the chief technical authority who approves nationwide IRS Support Request designs the core software architecture and negotiates global system rollouts with agency executives.
 I have no experience in this area.


8.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? (Select all that apply).

 A. Established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Started up and managed projects through completion.
 D. Established and monitored project progress.
 E. Made resource decisions for competing projects.
 F. Assigned tasks and monitored performance.
 G. Anticipated and resolve problems.
 H. None of the above.


9.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙