Position Title
Policy Advisor
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12908443 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13
14


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14:
For the GS-14, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
- Monitoring developments on illicit activities such as anti-money laundering/counter-financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) and financial issues; AND
- Developing policies or strategies on illicit financial threats to the U.S; AND
- Communicating results of research and analysis and making policy recommendations to senior decision makers; AND
- Engaging with the public, international organizations, or foreign governments on policy issues.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
For the GS-14, do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Specialized experience for the GS-13:
For the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes demonstrated experience in ALL of the following:
- Monitoring developments in illicit activities such as anti-money laundering/counter-financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) and financial issues; AND
- Assisting with creating policies or strategies on illicit financial threats to the U.S; AND
- Communicating results of research and analysis; AND
- Engaging with the public, international organizations, or foreign governments on policy issues.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
For the GS-13, do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Specialized experience for the GS-12:
 For the GS-12, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes demonstrated experience in ALL of the following:
- Assisting with creating policies or strategies related to national security threats to the U.S; AND
- Communicating results of research and analysis; AND
- Engaging with the public, international organizations, or foreign governments on policy issues.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
For the GS-12, do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Specialized experience for the GS-11:
 For the GS-11, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes demonstrated experience in ALL of the following:
- Preparing briefings, policies, or finished documents.; AND
- Engaging with the public, international organizations, intelligence community, or foreign governments.

OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related

OR

You may qualify on a combination of education and experience.
To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.



7.
Select the answer that best describes your experience:
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-9 level or equivalent as described above.
 I have the education as described above.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above (only graduate level education in excess of the first two years 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education).
 None of the above


8.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


9.
From the choices below, please select the areas in which you have experience:
 A. Illicit Finance
 B. Regional Expertise
 C. Counter Terrorism Finance
 D. Anti-Money Laundering
 E. National Security
 F. International Financial System
 G. International Affairs
 H. Intelligence
 I. Counterintelligence
 J. Economics/Finance
 K. International Trade
 L. None of the above


10.
Please select the following issues in which you have experience:
 A. National Security
 B. Anti-money laundering
 C. Counter Terrorist/threat finance
 D. Non-proliferation
 E. Narcotics trafficking
 F. Organized Crime
 G. Political Instability
 H. Vulnerabilities in the Financial System
 I. U.S. economic sanctions programs
 J. U.S. Foreign policy
 K. International relations
 L. International Financial Transactions
 M. International Bargaining and Negotiation
 N. None of the above


11.
From the choices below, please select all that apply in which you have experience with illicit finance issues:
 A. I have experience with techniques and principles of money laundering or terrorist financing.
 B. I have experience with technical or operational aspects of illicit finance and with money laundering/terrorist financing techniques and sources.
 C. I have experience with economic intelligence programs and their relation to the national security.
 D. I have experience with counter illicit finance programs conducted by the Federal government, their operations, AND their relation to the national intelligence activity.
 E. None of the above


12.
Choose the best choice that describes your experience with economic and financial issues.
 I have researched and delivered presentations or papers on economic and financial issues to senior officials and various audiences external to my organization.
 I have researched and delivered presentations or papers on economic and financial issues to working-level audiences internal to my organization.
 I have conducted research on economic and financial issues.
 None of the above


13.
What is your experience involving the development of finance policy and in developing strategies for the application of financial measures? Choose all that apply.
 A. I have developed memos and talking points for anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorist financing (CFT) and proliferation finance.
 B. I have provided trip support.
 C. I have written policy papers or reports on illicit finance issues.
 D. I have advised on policy related to AML/CFT.
 E. I have developed counter-illicit finance strategies with some intervention from my management team.
 F. I have been responsible for executing counter-illicit finance strategies in coordination with a variety of external stakeholders with some intervention from my management team.
 G. I have independently developed counter-illicit finance strategies with no intervention or supervision.
 H. I have independently been responsible for executing counter-illicit finance strategies in coordination with a variety of external stakeholders with no intervention or supervision
 I. None of the above


14.
From the list below, please select the choice that best describes your experience with regulations or policies.
 I have experience researching and interpreting U.S. government regulations and policies that relate to AML/CFT issues and implementing economic sanction programs for my organization.
 I have experience researching U.S. government regulations and policies that implement economic sanction programs for my organization.
 I have experience researching U.S. government regulations and economic policies.
 None of the Above


15.
What is your experience working with senior leadership or managers? Select all that apply:
 A. I have briefed senior leadership or managers on pertinent issues.
 B. I have developed memos and talking points for senior leadership or managers.
 C. I have advised senior leadership or managers on policy related to economic and financial issues.
 D. I have advised senior leadership or managers on policy related to AML/CFT and sanctions issues.
 E. I have provided trip support.
 F. None of the above


16.
Please identify which of the following organizations you have dealt with on matters relating to foreign policy, economic issues, regulatory/supervisory issues, national security issues or international standards/best practices:
 A. The National Security Staff
 B. The Department of State
 C. Congressional committees/staffs
 D. Foreign governments/counterparts
 E. The private sector, including the financial sector
 F. Financial Regulatory Community
 G. None of the above


17.
From the following list, select the long-range projects you have planned, organized, and directed pertaining to illicit finance, financial, and/or economic issues
 A. Projects pertaining to Illicit Finance Issues
 B. Projects pertaining to Financial Issues
 C. Projects pertaining to Economic Issues
 D. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


18.
 I have planned, organized and directed long-range projects.
 Yes
 No


19.
Experience must be clearly documented in your resume to receive credit. Please indicate where in your resume this experience can be found. (List position title, employer, and dates of employment.)


20.
 Choose the statements that describe your experience communicating concepts or issues related to illicit finance topics.
 A. I have presented factual illicit finance briefings at meetings or conferences.
 B. I have developed and presented persuasive briefings on illicit finance issues to varied audiences at meetings or conferences.
 C. I have routinely developed and briefed high level officials on illicit finance issues impacting US national security.
 D. I have represented my organization at interagency, or private sector equivalent, meetings to communicate organizational strategies, goals, objective, or priorities on illicit finance issues impacting US national security.
 E. None of the above


21.
Choose the statements that describe your experience communicating economic and financial issues.
 A. I have presented factual briefings on economic and financial issues at meetings or conferences.
 B. I have developed and presented persuasive briefings on economic and financial issues to varied audiences at meetings or conferences.
 C. I have developed and briefed high level officials on economic and financial issues impacting US national security and the integrity of the international financial system.
 D. I have represented my organization at interagency, or private sector equivalent, meetings to communicate organizational strategies, goals, objective, or priorities on economic and financial issues that impact the U.S. national security and integrity of the international financial system.
 E. None of the above


22.
What is your experience writing memos or policy papers on topics of international relations, international financial systems, or illicit finance generally?
 A. I have written memos or policy papers on international relations.
 B. I have written memos or policy papers on international financial systems.
 C. I have written memos or policy papers on illicit finance.
 D. None of the above


23.
From the following list, select the types of written products you have produced.
 A. Undergraduate research papers
 B. Graduate research papers
 C. News/academic articles
 D. Formal briefings
 E. Action memos
 F. Situation reports
 G. Policy guidelines
 H. Intelligence reports
 I. Position White papers
 J. Legal briefs/administrative records
 K. None of the above


24.
Choose the statements that describe your experience interacting with various groups and individuals.
 A. I routinely work with management officials to resolve issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships.
 B. I routinely work with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised policies, procedures and processes and discussing alternatives.
 C. I routinely advise or participate in meetings with groups or individuals to address issues or problems. This includes developing a rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues to the mutual satisfaction of all parties.
 D. I explain policies, procedures and processes to internal staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance.
 E. I explain policies, procedures and processes to internal staff and external counterparts and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance.
 F. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙