Position Title
Training Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12941151-26-JB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
GS-9 Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing of this announcement. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade or Canteen employee, this question does not apply to you. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-GS-07 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-09 grade level.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or I am currently a GS- 09 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me; I am a Wage Grade employee.
 This restriction applies to me, I do not meet the requirements


2.
GS-11 Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing of this announcement. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade or Canteen employee, this question does not apply to you. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-GS-09 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or I am currently a GS-11 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me; I am a Wage Grade employee.
 This restriction applies to me, I do not meet the requirements


3.
Individual Occupational Requirements: The 1712 Training Instruction series requires specific education or experience to be met in order to be appointed into a position of this series. All applicants must meet one of the Individual Occupational Requirements listed below in addition to the grade specific requirements. All applicants must meet the individual occupational requirements for the 1712 series. Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience.

 A. I have a bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in a subject area related to the position to be filled. (Transcripts required)
 B. I have at least one (1) year of Specialized Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Your experience must demonstrate a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: (1) Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s); (2) Supervising or administering a training program; (3) Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results; and (4) Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.
 C. I do not meet these requirements.


4.
GS-9 Minimum Requirement: 
Specialized experience. One year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the GS-07 level or equivalent for this position. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. The incumbent serves in a developmental position at the GS-09 level and is expected to perform the major functions of the position with significant oversight. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to:
Coordinates with internal/external sources to locate and pool resources and talents to meet common training needs.
Advising supervisors and employees of available training courses.
Advising supervisors and employees concerning regulations and procedures for training in government and non-government facilities.
Arranging for training in accordance with the established and approved plan.
Providing information for available training, arranging for instruction in accordance with the established and approved plan, compiling and preparing reports and helps facilitate courses for the facility.
Maintaining a library of course catalogs and course announcements.
Maintaining inventory of course materials, initiates ordering of training materials as needed. OR,
Education: A Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. with a major course of study in education or a subject related to this position being fille. (Transcript required) OR
Combination: A combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond 18 credit hours with a major course of study in Education or a subject related to this position being filled. The first year of graduate study is not qualifying. (Transcript required)
 I possess 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level as outlined above
 I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. with a major course of study in education or a subject related to this position being filled. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond 18 credit hours with a major course of study in Education or a subject related to this position being filled. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education required for the GS-09 grade level


5.
GS-11 Minimum Requirement:
Specialized experience: One year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent for this position. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. The incumbent serves in a developmental position at the GS-11 level and is expected to perform the major functions of the position with significant oversight. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to:
Developing programs and activities which use the latest technology to deliver training.
Advising management on all aspects of staff education, training and development including supervisory and management training ensuring that identified organization training needs are met.
Providing technical advice and support to all levels of management in determining employee training needs, providing training sources, designing action plans, and evaluating results.
Participating in VACO mandated trainings including train-the-trainer opportunities with responsibility of coordinating facility-wide roll outs to include promotion, facilitation and tracking of participation.
Continually reviewing and implementing programmatic changes based upon VA's published policies on staff and organizational development and as necessary assists with developing new local policies to ensure compliance with Federal regulations and to best practices in staff and organizational development and training. OR
Education: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. with a major study in education or a subject area related to this position to being filled. (Transcripts required) OR
A Combination of specialized experience and graduate level education beyond the first two years of graduate education with a major study in education or a subject area related to this position to being filled. The first 2 years of graduate study (36 credit hours) are not qualifying. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level as outlined above.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. with a major study in education or a subject area related to this position to being filled. (Transcripts required)
 I possess a Combination of specialized experience and graduate level education beyond the first two years of graduate education with a major study in education or a subject area related to this position to being filled. The first 2 years of graduate study (36 credit hours) are not qualifying. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education required for the GS-11 grade level


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Salary/Rank etc
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
References, current or recent supervisor
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. The experience stated in your resume must support your assessment responses.
 
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙