Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12849627-AR-26-010 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E4 - E8?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E4 - E8.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E4 - E8.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training involving planning, developing, or administering quality assurance programs (i.e., supporting the development, acquisition, production, use, maintenance, storage, and supply of products concerned with the systematic prevention of defects and non-conformances, the identification of unsatisfactory trends and conditions, and the correction of factors which may contribute to defective items). Experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. In addition to the OPM IORs, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training, involving principles, techniques, and accepted practices of quality assurance work (i.e., he performance of technical inspector duties on aircraft and the review of aircraft forms and records). Experience in the application and theory of specialization using applicable publications. Experience in the preparation of technical reports on quality levels to identify specific problem areas and to recommend corrective action.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a time when you identified a significant quality deficiency or negative failure trend during an assessment. Walk me through how you investigated the root cause, what your recommendations were, and how you worked with maintenance supervisors to implement and verify the corrective actions.



4.

Tell me about the most complex technical publication conflict or safety-of-flight (SOF) message you had to interpret and implement. How did you ensure all maintenance personnel understood the requirements, and what steps did you take to monitor and report on compliance?



5.

Recall an experience where you developed a new or substantially revised a quality assurance procedure or training program. What prompted this change, and how did you ensure the new process was compliant with Army policies, technically accurate, and effectively adopted by the team?



6.

Describe a challenging situation you handled as a liaison to an external organization. How did you represent the AASF's interests and standards, resolve conflicts, and ensure the outcome was beneficial to the quality and safety of maintenance operations?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙