Position Title
Executive Director Medical Center (Physician/Dentist/Podiatrist) NAT 56
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFN-12889524-26-MD Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a post-secondary student who is:

(1) Enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an institution of higher education; or
(2) Pursuing a baccalaureate or graduate degree on at least a part-time basis; and
(3) Meet the minimum qualifications described in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Individuals appointed under this authority will be appointed to a temporary or term appointment in the competitive service.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation of your enrollment or acceptance of enrollment in an accredited post-secondary institution. Documentation includes - a copy of your latest transcript; statement from the institution's registrar, dean, or other appropriate official; or equivalent documentation.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Tuscaloosa, AL
 B. Loma Linda, CA
 C. San Francisco, CA
 D. Grand Junction, CO
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Augusta, GA
 G. Marion, IL
 H. Detroit, MI
 I. Kansas City, MO
 J. Fort Harrison, MT
 K. Bronx, NY
 L. New York, NY
 M. Pittsburgh, PA
 N. Big Spring, TX
 O. Hampton, VA
 P. Salem, VA
 Q. Sheridan, WY


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0602 - Medical Officer
 B. 0668 - Podiatrist
 C. 0680 - Dental Officer


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Applicants must meet the below educational requirement in order to minimally qualify:

Physician Basic Educational Requirement:

Degree of Doctor of Medicine: Degree of Doctor of Medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are: (1) Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, or (2) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted. (3) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (1) or (2) above, facility officials must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed by the applicant.

Residency Training: Physicians must have completed residency training or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. Approved residencies include those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or American Osteopathic Association, or other residences which the Professional Standards Board determines to have provided appropriate professional training.

Dentist Basic Educational Requirement:

Degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery or dental medicine resulting from a course of education in dentistry. The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are: (1) United States and Canadian schools of dentistry listed by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA), in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.

(2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia as qualifying for full and unrestricted licensure provided the licensure requirements include a written examination measuring science achievement and a performance examination measuring clinical competence.

Residency or Comparable Experience. Completion of an approved residency program in general practice or specialty, or comparable experience as a dentist actively involved in treating medically compromised patients.

Do you meet the education requirements stated above?

 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants must have a current, full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry, medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The dentist or physician must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure. Please provide proof of license in application package.

Do you currently hold a full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry, medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?

 Yes
 No


3.
DEMONSTRATED LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE:

In addition to the education requirements, applicants must possess the following technical qualifications and executive core qualifications (ECQs) required for this position. Typically, these qualifications would be gained through progressively responsible management or executive level assignments such as director of a region or program in areas of medical and healthcare leadership.

All applicants must show in their RESUME that they possess these specific technical qualifications and ECQs. It is highly recommended that your resume address your accomplishments in these specific competency areas or by writing narratives outlining your work accomplishments supporting these competencies. Failing to provide this information in your application package may result in non-consideration.

EXECUTIVE CORE QUALIFICATIONS (ECQs):

(1) Commitment to the Rule of Law and the Principles of the American Founding: This core qualification requires a demonstrated knowledge of the American system of government, commitment to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law, and commitment to serve the American people.

(2) Driving Efficiency: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to strategically and efficiently manage resources, budget effectively, cut wasteful spending, and pursue efficiency through process and technological upgrades.

(3) Merit and Competence: This core qualification involves the demonstrated knowledge, ability and technical competence to effectively and reliably produce work that is of exceptional quality.

(4) Leading People: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to lead and inspire a group toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, and to drive a high-performance, high-accountability culture. This includes, when necessary, the ability to lead people through change and to hold individuals accountable.

(5) Achieving Results: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to achieve both individual and organizational results, and to align results to stated goals from superiors.

TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (TQ):

(1) Knowledge of mission, organization, programs and requirements of health care delivery systems, and the ability to manage and direct a large health care facility.

Do you have the demonstrated leadership experience and technical qualification as outlined above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙