Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Announcement Number
HHS-CMS-RG-26-12988432 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Degree Candidates Spring 2026:  Are you a degree candidate for this current semester/term, i.e., Spring 2026, scheduled to complete a qualifying Associate's, Bachelor's, Master's, Doctorate, professional, vocational, or technical degree or certificate program AND your degree/certificate has not been conferred at the time of application?

To verify your eligibility and qualifications, you must submit the following at the time of application: A copy of your unofficial transcripts from the educational institution you attended attesting to your education completed to date. Your unofficial transcripts must reflect: (1) your name; (2) overall grade point average (GPA); AND (3) Degree Type (e.g., Bachelor's, Master's, etc.) and Degree Major (e.g., Accounting, Human Resources, etc.). 

NOTE: Additional proof required if selected for the position.  If you are selected, you will be required to submit an additional transcript that confirms the date your degree was conferred.  The degree must be conferred by June 30, 2026. Failure to submit proof of degree/certificate completion will result in the withdrawal of your application from consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Pathways Recent Graduates:
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelor's, Master's, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? NOTE: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply. For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. 
 
To verify your eligibility and qualifications, you must submit the following at the time of application: A copy of your unofficial transcripts from the educational institution you attended attesting to your possession of the required education.  Your unofficial transcripts must reflect: (1) your name; (2) overall grade point average (GPA); (3) Degree Type (e.g., Bachelor's, Master's, etc.) and Degree Major (e.g., Accounting, Human Resources, etc.); AND (4) the date your Degree was conferred.

NOTE: If you are a veteran, in addition to your transcripts, you must also submit at the time of application a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service), or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Woodlawn, MD
 D. Boston, MA
 E. Kansas City, MO
 F. Philadelphia, PA
 G. Dallas, TX
 H. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


4.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


5.
Select the response or responses that best describe how you heard about this position INITIALLY or the VERY FIRST TIME YOU ENCOUNTERED CMS? This question is only designed to assist with recruitment planning efforts.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Handshake
 C. Symplicity
 D. Twitter
 E. YouTube
 F. Job Board (Indeed/Glassdoor/Monster, etc.) – Please specify the Job Board in the text box below.
 G. College/University Event – Please specify the Recruitment Event in the text box below.
 H. Career Fair (Specialty field, Veterans, Individuals with Disabilities, etc.) – Please specify the Career Fair in the text box below.
 I. Professional Organization Job board or event – Please specify the organization in the text box below.
 J. CMS Hosted Webinar – Please specify the Webinar Topic in the text box below.
 K. Friend/Family Member/CMS Employee
 L. CMS Website
 M. USAJOBS or USAJOBS Email Notification


6.
Please provide the specifics about how you heard about this vacancy announcement. For example - where exactly did you hear of this position; which job fair did you interact with CMS; if it was word of mouth, who did you hear it from, etc? Enter N/A if "Not Applicable".


7.
Please enter the type of degree(s)/certificate(s) you have received or will receive and the applicable graduation date(s).


8.
Do you possess a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher on an unweighted 4.0 scale? NOTE: You must provide documentation at the time of application to support your answer. Please see required documents listed in the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
In accordance with Executive Order (EO) 12964 and the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Federal Drug-Free Workplace Program governed by EO 12564, Federal employees MUST refrain from the use of ALL illegal drugs both on and off duty.

Marijuana use in any form (including medicinal), could deem a person unsuitable for Federal employment. State laws do not supersede Federal law.
Therefore, Federal employees MUST refrain from use of ALL illegal drugs (to include marijuana) on and off duty, even when residing in a state where marijuana use has been legalized for medicinal or recreational purposes.

Do you agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if you are selected for Federal employment?
 Yes, I agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if selected for Federal employment.
 No, I do not agree to refrain from all illegal drug use if selected for Federal employment.


Merit Hiring Plan Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for applying for the position of Budget Analyst, GS-0560-7/9, with the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select one statement from below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the minimum qualification requirements for the position of a Budget Analyst, GS-0560-7.

 I have one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal Government obtained in either the private or public sector, to include: 1) answering general questions on topics related to budget formulation or budget execution; and 2) assisting with preparing budget reports.
 I possess at least 1 full year of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in a related field of study. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education, but less than 1 year as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. [Applicants using a combination of education and experience must compute the percent of education and experience they have completed, and together they must equal 100%. To do this, divide the number of graduate semester hours completed by 18, and this is the percentage of education you have completed; next divide the number of months of specialized experience you have completed by 12, this is the percentage of experience you have completed. Add the two percentages together they must equal 100% to qualify]. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I have a bachelor's degree and Superior Academic Achievement (SAA). SAA is defined as meeting one of the following: 1) a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher based on a 4.0 scale as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of curriculum; 2) a 3.5 GPA or higher based on a 4.0 scale as computed based on the required courses completed in a major field of study, or the required courses completed in the major field during the final two years of curriculum; 3) class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; OR 4) membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I am currently pursuing a bachelor’s or higher degree, and I will meet one of the above requirements prior to graduation this semester – Spring 2026. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
Select one statement from below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the minimum qualification requirements for the position of a Budget Analyst, GS-0560-9.

 I have one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal Government obtained in either the private or public sector, to include: 1) assisting with planning, preparing, or developing budget requests; 2) analyzing and interpreting current or historic financial data; and 3) preparing budget reports.
 I have completed a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree - Degree/coursework must be related to the position being filled. (Note: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I possess a combination of specialized experience as identified in paragraph "A" above and graduate-level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study as identified in paragraph "B" above that together equate to 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (Note: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I am currently pursuing a master’s or higher degree, and I will meet one of the above requirements prior to graduation this semester – Spring 2026. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙