Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (RV Parks Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
MYPT26-12958219 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you currently have a valid driver's license?
 Yes
 No


2.
Work may require considerable walking and movement of equipment day-to-day, and may require lifting up to eighty (50) pounds with assistance.  Are you willing and able to meet these physical requirements?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a National Agency Background Check?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a RV Park manager, NF-0303-03 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you possess a degree in Recreation or related field from an accredited college or equivalent work experience and training that include the necessary skills, knowledge and ability to perform the duties of this position? (Proof of education must be uploaded to receive credit)
 Yes, I possess a degree in Recreation or related field from an accredited college.
 I do not possess a degree in Recreation or related field, but have equivalent work experience and training that include the necessary skills, knowledge and ability to perform the duties of this position.
 No, I do not possess a degree in Recreation or related field from an accredited college, nor equivalent work experience and training that include the necessary skills, knowledge and ability to perform the duties of this position


2.
Your knowledge of general business principles & financial management, to include but not limited to, budgeting, cost and profitability, financial reporting, internal controls, auditing, and purchasing, can best be described as:
 Four (4) or more years of experience.
 Two (2) to four (4) years of experience.
 Less than two (2) years of experience.
 I do not possess experience as stated above.


3.
My experience supervising and managing direct report employees can be best described as:
 I have four (4) or more years of experience supervising and managing direct report employees.
 I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience supervising and managing direct report employees.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience supervising and managing direct report employees.
 I possess no experience as stated above.


4.
How much experience do you have with the operation of a RV Park or lodging facility?
 I have four (4) or more years of experience with the operation of a RV Park.
 I have four (4) or more years of experience with the operation of a lodging facility, but not a RV Park specifically.
 I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience with the operation of a RV Park.
 I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience with the operation of a lodging facility, but not a RV Park specifically.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience in with the operation of a RV Park or lodging facility.
 I do not have experience with the operation of a RV Park or lodging facility.


5.
How much experience do you have with using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system?
 I have four (4) or more years of experience using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system.
 I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system.
 I possess no experience as stated above.


6.
How much experience do you have organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities?
 I have four (4) or more years of experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
 I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
 I do not have any experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.


7.
My experience in maintaining inventories of various types of fixed assets, retail items, supplies and any other item deemed to have cash value can best be described as:
 I have been responsible for the overall management of these types of inventories from procurement to disposition.
 I have assisted in maintaining all of these types of inventories to include: receiving, counting, etc.
 I have assisted in maintaining one of, but not all of these types of inventories.
 I have no experience with these types of inventories.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙