Position Title
INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH SPECIALIST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP(ROB)-12890473-CLK Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/




1.
Are you a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


3.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


4.
If you have not already done so, you must upload or fax all of the required documentation that applies to you. Failure to do so will rate you ineligible for this vacancy announcement. *This applied to current CBP employees.
I certify that I have uploaded or faxed legible copies of:

1. Both the front and backside of my FAA Pilots Certification/License.
2. My valid FAA Class I or II Medical Certificate and it is dated within the last 12 months.
3. Flight log pages needed to verify ALL flight hours required by this announcement.
4. A resume the clearly documents my piloting experience.

 Yes
 No


5.
If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.


6.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes collecting and extracting intelligence information; reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information from a wide range of sources; ensuring that all intelligence data is properly classified, stored, and handled; initiating and maintaining useful intelligence contact with counterparts and colleagues; writing intelligence products to answer a customer's intelligence question or requirement.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙