Position Title
Materials Handler (MVO)
Agency
U.S. Air Forces, Europe
Announcement Number
26-7EFSRL26217862 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Air Force Nonappropriated Funds. Please take a moment to answer the below assessment questions. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Air Force policy. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with this requirement?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring (terminal leave) or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made in accordance with DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.

Are you a current or prior active duty military member that is retiring or has been retired from active duty less than 180 days? Please respond Yes or No below.
 Yes
 No


6.
OVERSEAS ONLY: Are you currently an Active Duty Military Member stationed overseas? If claiming yes, a copy of your PCS Orders must be uploaded with your application to receive consideration.
 Yes
 No


7.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


8.
By agreeing to the statement below you are confirming that you:
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy
Verified your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability
Failure to agree or respond to the this will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙