Position Title
Industrial Hygienist
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-13077270-DHA
Open Period
Sep 30, 2026 to Oct 06, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
MQ JW JT642863 13077270 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in an Industrial Hygienist position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or certification that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Industrial Hygienist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's or graduate (or higher level) degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or a related science. My education was accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor's degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. My education was accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For engineering degrees to be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Techncology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a certification from the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH). (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 I do not possess the education and/or certification described above.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Industrial Hygienist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes conducting comprehensive industrial hygiene surveys and audits; interpreting and advising on occupational health hazards and regulatory compliance; evaluating plans and processes to recommend exposure controls across work environments; and supervising a team of industrial hygiene personnel (such as assigning work, delivering training, reviewing completed tasks, managing performance, addressing personnel matters, and ensuring training).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
