Position Title
Student Intern (Administrative)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-ASA-PW-26-13028850 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a former Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employee eligible for priority reemployment consideration under the HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) due to Reduction in Force (RIF)?

You may be eligible for priority consideration if you are actively registered on the HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) for the same local commuting area, occupational job series, and grade level(s) as this vacancy announcement.

If you meet these criteria, the following supporting documentation must be submitted to support your claim:
copy of your last performance rating of record (if separated due to RIF);
SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that shows the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were separated. If you did not reach your full performance level or promotion potential, you should also submit an additional SF-50 that documents that grade level. To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information; and,
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease (if eligible due to recovery from compensable work-related injury).
Based on the above, are you eligible for PRL? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a student that has been accepted for enrollment or are enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate? You must remain enrolled and will be required to provide proof of current student status to be eligible for this program.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/StudentsAndGrads)
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


10.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Chicago, IL
 E. Kansas City, KS
 F. Boston, MA
 G. Dallas County, TX
 H. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a student in good academic standing and understand that you must remain in good academic standing throughout the Pathways Internship Program?

 I am in good academic standing and maintain at least a 2.5 GPA (cumulative) for an undergraduate degree program.
 I am in good academic standing and maintain at least a 3.0 GPA in a professional master's degree program.
 I am not in good academic standing and do not possess the GPA described above.


2.
From the description below, select the one which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for the Student Trainee (Administrative), GS-04 position.

 I have completed (two) full academic years of post high school study or an associate's degree.
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
From the description below, select the one which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for the Student Trainee (Administrative), GS-05 position.

 I have completed 4 academic years of post high school study leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree.
 I do not possess the education described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙