Position Title
Firefighter (Intermediate Life Support)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12941877-WE-CE-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the statement below, please select the response that best describes your experience and/or education. Select only one answer.


1.
GS-8 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position:

 I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-7 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


2.
Please indicate whether you meet any of the following:

 I am under age 37.
 After including the amount of Federal civilian time already worked in a rigorous/primary firefighter position, I will be under age 60 when I attain 20 years of covered firefighter experience.
 I am not a preference eligible and I have reached the age of 37 but I am under age 40 and will request a waiver from the United States Coast Guard Commandant.
 I am a preference eligible. http://www.chcoc.gov/transmittals/transmittaldetails.aspx?transmittalid=2484
 I am over age 37 but under age 40 and will request a waiver from the United States Coast Guard Commandant.
 I do not meet any of the choices above.


3.
This position requires that applicants must be licensed by the State of Alaska as a certified Emergency Medical Technician Level 3 (EMT-3), National Registry Advanced or any other EMS certifications that meet reciprocity with the required certification will be considered as adequate. Please read the following statements and select the one appropriate to your background.

 I currently possess the EMS certification appropriate for the position.
 I do not have the EMS certification appropriate for the position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination
process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


5.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙