Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic Leader
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-13000927-26-AM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following question based on your ability to perform the duties of the position. When answering, remember that your answer is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of your knowledge or skills as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify your response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability.


1.
(Screen Out) From the descriptions below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Leader without more than normal supervision (refer to the Duties section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information). This includes but is not limited to: Experience is positions that required knowledge of surface preparation and coating methods and techniques used in the painting occupation; knowledge of plastering trade practices and skill in applying these work methods and techniques; carpentry skills requiring knowledge of wood, metal and wood substitute materials and standard industry-accepted construction techniques; air conditioning trade knowledge of the refrigeration cycle theory, heat transfer laws, refrigerant temperature to pressure calculations, air flow calculations, and duct sizing calculations for commercial, industrial and residential HVAC systems; steam/plumbing trade knowledge of various utility systems (steam, water, sewerage, storm drain, heating, oil/gas, fire/sprinkler, heating, and medical air or general vacuum systems); electrical trade knowledge of basic electrical theory and concepts on systems up to 480 volts; wood crafter knowledge including fabricating, modifying, and repairing a variety of cabinetry and furniture including planning and laying out work from specifications, blueprints, sketches, and oral instructions; and general maintenance to include knowledge and skill that includes the laying of floor tile, lock maintenance, installing ceiling tile, drywall installation, taping and floating, changing oil, filters, belts, blades, repairing chairs, installing door closures, and door stops, hanging bulletin boards, pictures, mirrors, fans, clocks, etc.
 I have vocational training, or I have completed an apprenticeship as a Maintenance Mechanic Leader.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Leader under close supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Leader under normal supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Leader independently under limited supervision.
 I have experience as a Maintenance Mechanic Leader, or I am consulted by other trade workers in difficult situations because of my expertise in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙