Position Title
Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-2026-JR-12985984-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Veteran Service Representative GS-0996- 10 position. We will evaluate your application and responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Your responses are subject to verification. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

CTAP Eligibility: Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Veterans Benefits Administration? If yes, confirm the following:

You are a "surplus" or "displaced employee.

AND

Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy

AND

Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).

 Yes
 No


2.
GS-10 Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-9 or higher for at least 52 weeks to be eligible for the GS-10 grade level. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you.

 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 grade level or I am currently a GS-10 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


3.
GS-10 Specialized Experience: Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0996-10 Veterans Service Representative. Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09). Specialized experience is that which demonstrates competence in adjudicating Veterans' claims. Specialized experience is typically gained in positions that have involved the development, examination, investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for disability compensation, disability pension, death compensation, death pension benefits, life insurance benefits etc. Such experience is to be substantive and relevant and requires a high degree of independence and judgment in interpretation of more complex legal and medical documentation to determine claimant's eligibility and supporting evidence for services and benefits.

OR

Education Two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. To be creditable, such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (see "Competencies" in the Requirements section) necessary to do the work. Note: Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-10. (i.e. The applicant's first year of graduate study is not qualifying for GS-9.).

OR

Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate Education. (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12.Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages.

The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify). Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09). Specialized experience is that which demonstrates competence in adjudicating Veterans' claims.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service that include: 1) Asking questions relating to military service or medical evidence to make determinations as to the eligibility for programs, 2) Reviewing claims or cases to assure all laws have been laws addressed in the adjudication process, and 3) Informing claimants of all evidence requirements needed to further process a claim for benefits and/or services.
 I possess I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. Two and a half years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education as described above. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not possess the experience or education as described in the above statements.


4.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Understanding
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


5.
INSTRUCTIONS: This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employee of the San Diego, California, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) CTAP eligibles.


6.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is opened ONLY to current, permanent employees of the San Diego, California Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office employees and Veterans Affairs Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible. From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Veterans Service Specialist, GS-0996-10.

 Yes, I am currently employed by the San Diego, California, VBA Regional Office. I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I am not a current and permanent employee of the San Diego, California, VBA Regional Office nor am I a current/former VA employee who is a Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙