Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12997111-AF-26-151-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current onboard employee within the OHANG at the 180 FW within OSC? (SF-50 Required)
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses 1-year of experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience managing, directing, and implementing the local formulation and publication of installation deployment guidance based on regulations, manuals, instructions, and directives issued by higher headquarters?


2a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


3.
Do you have experience panning, developing, directing, and conducting deployment training for the wing and units; developing and scheduling training courses and approving lesson plans developed by functional areas; developing and scheduling manpower and workload requirements for the organization deployment work centers and ensures they are fully staffed and trained?


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙