Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Impound)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
13029367 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


2.
Do you have a valid driver's license that you are able to maintain or obtain?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing and able to work irregular work hours such as early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when needs arise?
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
4. This position includes responsibilities such as cleaning auction vehicles and maintaining grass and grounds to ensure a clean, safe, and professional environment. Are you able and willing to perform these duties.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙