Position Title
General Engineer/Physical Scientist
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
26-NA-ESH-XA-00321-EN-GOV Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Livermore, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Germantown, MD
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Los Alamos, NM
 G. Aiken, SC
 H. Oak Ridge, TN
 I. Amarillo, TX


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


3.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


4.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.


5.
I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


6.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the General Engineer/Physical Scientist position with the Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration.


1.
You must meet the basic requirement for professional engineering positions. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/experience background. NOTE: If you are qualifying on the basis of a combination of education and experience, both must be sufficient to demonstrate possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for this position, and is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study with a major in the appropriate field. In addition to courses in the major and related fields, a typical college degree includes courses that involve analysis, writing, critical thinking, research, etc. These courses provide the skills and abilities sufficient to perform progressively more responsible work. Therefore, creditable experience should have demonstrated similarly appropriate skills or abilities needed to perform the work of an engineer.

 Professional engineering degree received from a school of engineering with at least 1 curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology as professional engineering curriculum.
 Professional engineering degree & have completed courses that included differential & integral calculus & courses (beyond first-year physics/chemistry) in at least 5 of the following areas of engineering science or physics: A-statics, dynamics; B-strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); C-fluid mechanics, hydraulics; D-thermodynamics; E-electrical fields & circuits; F-nature & properties of materials & G-other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 Currently registered as a professional engineer in one of the states in the U.S., the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico.
 Successfully passed an Engineer-in-Training examination, or the written test required for professional registration, as administered by a Board of Engineering Examiners in one of the states in the U.S., the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico.
 I possess a combination of college level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished 1-a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering; and 2-a good understanding, both theoretical & practical, of the engineering sciences & techniques & their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I possess a combination of college level education, training, and/or technical experience. I have completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, & engineering sciences & in engineering. I have completed courses as listed in Item 2 above. These courses are fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum accredited by ABET. In addition, I possess progressively responsible work experience that demonstrates that I possess the knowledge, skills & abilities required to perform work as an engineer.
 I have completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology. In addition, I have at least one year of professional engineering experience that was acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I understand that I must provide documentation to support this claim. This may be evidenced by an established plan of training to develop professional engineering competence or several years of professional engineering-type experience.
 I do not meet any of the above.


2.
You must meet the basic requirement for physical scientist positions. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/experience background. NOTE: If you are qualifying on the basis of a combination of education and experience, both must be sufficient to demonstrate possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for this position, and is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study with a major in the appropriate field. In addition to courses in the major and related fields, a typical college degree includes courses that involve analysis, writing, critical thinking, research, etc. These courses provide the skills and abilities sufficient to perform progressively more responsible work. Therefore, creditable experience should have demonstrated similarly appropriate skills or abilities needed to perform the work of a physical scientist.

 I have a degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering sciences such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I possess a combination of education and experience ? education equivalent to one of the majors listed above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, and appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet either of the above.


3.
EN-05: To meet the qualifications requirements for EN-05 level (above GS-15), select the option that best describes your background and experience:

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the EN/NN-04 pay band level or the GS-15 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described in the vacancy announcement.


4.
Describe your experience with nuclear operations safety basis review and safety systems oversight. Please consider the elements listed below in your response:
Safety Basis Reviews relating to nuclear and/or non-nuclear operations. Design Reviews of nuclear and/or non-nuclear Structures, Systems, or Components (SSCs).



5.
Please describe your experience performing nuclear safety functions. Include examples of reviewing or leading reviews of safety authorization or authorization basis documents, conducting quality assurance or nuclear criticality safety reviews, and preparing written evaluations of contractor-developed safety documentation.



6.
Please describe your experience serving as a technical advisor or subject matter expert providing oversight of seismic safety, nuclear safety, safety management programs, and engineering functions. Include examples of advising senior leadership and supporting areas such as nuclear criticality safety, safety system oversight, unreviewed safety questions, and nuclear safety basis implementation.



7.
Please describe your leadership experience, including leading teams, developing or reviewing complex position papers, coaching or mentoring staff, setting short- and long-term priorities, and leading organizational improvements or change initiatives that achieved measurable results.



8.
Describe your experience as a senior technical leader or supervisor directing multidisciplinary engineering/scientific teams, resolving novel technical challenges, authoring influential technical analyses, mentoring personnel, and implementing process reengineering or performance improvements.



9.
Describe your experience conducting safety basis analyses and independent design reviews of nuclear and non-nuclear facility structures, systems, and components (SSCs), including safety system performance and compliance oversight.



10.
Describe your experience, knowledge, and ability related to seismic safety and the oversight of nuclear or nuclear-related high-hazard facility operations. Include examples of performing physical inspections, technical evaluations, or operational assessments of contractor and/or subcontractor activities in production and/or laboratory environments. Highlight the scope, complexity, and level of responsibility of your work.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙