Position Title
Cashier
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12866443 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Work may require sitting, walking, long periods of standing, bending. Are you able to meet these physical requirements?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Cashier, NF-2091-01 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating


1.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience and or education level.

Note: All experience must be documented on resume, and if claiming education as qualifying factor, diploma must be included.
 I have three (3) months or more of general experience performing the duties of a cashier.
 I do not have at least three (3) months experience performing the duties of a cashier, but I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I do not have three (3) months of experience, nor do I have a high school diploma or equivalent.


2.
How many years of customer service experience do you possess?
 I do not possess experience in customer service.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience in customer service.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience in customer service.
 I possess three (3) or more years of experience in customer service.


3.
How many years of experience taking inventory, and restocking shelves do you possess?
 I do not possess experience in this area.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience in this area.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience in this area.
 I possess three (3) or more years of experience in this area.


4.
How many years of experience do you possess operating a cash register or point of sale (POS)system?
 I do not possess experience operating a cash register, or POS system.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience operating a cash register, or POS system.
 I possess one (1) to two (2) years of experience operating a cash register, or POS system.
 I possess more than two (2) years of experience operating a cash register, or POS system.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙