Position Title
Administrative Law Judge
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Labor
Announcement Number
DL-AL-OALJ-26-13019660-RW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Boston, MA
 C. Cincinnati, OH
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Pittsburgh, PA
 F. Newport News, VA


2.
I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. In the event that my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will amend my responses to more accurately reflect the level of competency demonstrated in my resume.
 Yes
 No


3.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, most recent performance appraisal dated within 18 months (or a reason explaining why one cannot be provided) may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Where did you first learn about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity?
Other College or University Sponsored Career Fair
Alumni Association
DOL Employee (former or current)
Indeed
LinkedIn
Peace Corps
DOL Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) Outreach
Disability Organization
Military Spouse Program/Network
Veterans Organization
Friend/Relative
USAJOBS
Other


5.
Please provide the name of the institution/college/university or organization/program/network where you first heard about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity. If you learned about this DOL job opportunity through a DOL Sponsored Career Fair, please provide the name of the career fair. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


Core Questions
1.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate pay plan of the highest graded position you held.
GS
WG
AA
AD
AL
CA
ED
EF
EH
SES
EX
FC
GM
SL
Other
Not applicable


3.
If you selected "Other", please enter the Pay Plan. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


4.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the highest-grade level you held.
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
SES or Comparable Level
Other
Not applicable
SL


5.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest title, series, graded position you held (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present, or if not applicable, please enter N/A.).

Note: Time-In-Grade restrictions apply in relation to advancement to General Schedule positions of employees in the competitive service.


6.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable


7.
Have you previously held (in the last 5 years) or are you currently a Political Employee (i.e., PAS, PA, Non-career SES, or Schedule C). If so, please indicate the dates of the highest title, series, graded position you held (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present. If not applicable, please enter N/A.).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙