Position Title
Management and Program Analyst (Detail NTE 120 days)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12941180-26-KLI Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following set of questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Minimum Qualifications Requirement GS11: Please select the statement below that best describes your experience to meet the specific qualification requirement for this grade level.

 Experience. I possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service, that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of this position and that is typically in or related to the position being filled. Specialized experience includes: Analyzes and measures the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of administrative, technical and clinical programs, with comprehensive knowledge of mission, organization, and work processes of healthcare systems management, planning and operations; knowledge of the concepts, principles, practices and regulations that apply to budgeting and financial tracking for a healthcare program with regional impact; Advanced knowledge of International Classification of Disease (ICD), Current Procedural Terminology (CPT), Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS), Medical Terminology, and Current documentation guidelines; Develops resource guidance for the Medical Center activities in accordance with VHA policies and objectives, regulations and precedents as well as major issues which affect the use of VAH, VISN and system related support resources (people, money, or equipment); presents recommendations and negotiates solutions to disputed recommendations; performs a wide variety of analytical and evaluative studies to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of the VA administrative and health care services and delivery systems; provides consultation and technical advice and leads groups and coordinating the work of a large number of parties.
 Education: I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).
 Experience/Education Combination: I have an equivalent combination of education and experience that is qualifying for this position. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).
 I do NOT possess the experience as described in the above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications Requirement GS12: Please select the statement below that best describes your experience to meet the specific qualification requirement for this grade level.

 Experience. I possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service, that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of this position and that is typically in or related to the position being filled. Specialized experience includes: Analyzes and measures the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of administrative, technical and clinical programs, with comprehensive knowledge of mission, organization, and work processes of healthcare systems management, planning and operations; knowledge of the concepts, principles, practices and regulations that apply to budgeting and financial tracking for a healthcare program with regional impact; Advanced knowledge of International Classification of Disease (ICD), Current Procedural Terminology (CPT), Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS), Medical Terminology, and Current documentation guidelines; Develops resource guidance for the Medical Center activities in accordance with VHA policies and objectives, regulations and precedents as well as major issues which affect the use of VAH, VISN and system related support resources (people, money, or equipment); presents recommendations and negotiates solutions to disputed recommendations; performs a wide variety of analytical and evaluative studies to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of the VA administrative and health care services and delivery systems; provides consultation and technical advice and leads groups and coordinating the work of a large number of parties.
 I do NOT possess the experience as described in the above.


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

 https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ 

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙