Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Chief)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12855881-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


5.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0808 - Architecture
 B. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 C. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 D. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Architect/Engineer) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory General/Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineer at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Architect at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect's office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Architect/Engineer) at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Coordinating construction operations including the planning and organization for major programs/projects with multimillion dollar level of annual resources.; AND 2) Overseeing the full scopes of large construction projects/programs to include contract administration and acquisition methods for mission delivery.; AND 3) Conducting supervisory or lead functions over organizational staff (e.g. develop performance standards, evaluate performance, recommend and approve awards for subordinate employees, etc.).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has five response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.

Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are the Chief of Engineering & Construction Division managing a $600M program with 300-450 staff across 6 major branches and 5 construction area offices. Two of your branch chiefs are in significant disagreement about resource allocation for competing high-priority military construction projects, each arguing their project should receive additional funding and personnel. The disagreement is affecting team morale and project timelines. How do you address this situation?

 Delegate the resolution to your deputy chief to mediate between the branch chiefs, providing guidance on organizational priorities but allowing them to work through the details of resource allocation and timeline adjustments.
 Convene a structured meeting with both branch chiefs to review project priorities against strategic objectives, facilitate collaborative problem-solving to identify resource optimization opportunities, and establish clear decision criteria for future allocation decisions while reinforcing shared organizational goals.
 Inform both branch chiefs that they need to resolve their differences independently and report back with a joint recommendation, as this type of disagreement should be handled at their level without division chief involvement.
 Schedule a team meeting with all branch chiefs to discuss the resource allocation openly, allowing the group to vote on the best approach while you facilitate the discussion and implement whatever the majority decides.
 Meet individually with each branch chief to understand their perspectives, then make an executive decision on resource allocation based on project criticality and communicate the rationale clearly to both parties while emphasizing the importance of unified leadership.


2.
Your division is facing a significant reduction in military appropriations, requiring a 25% staff reduction over the next six months. You need to maintain operational capability while managing the organizational change. Several long-term employees are expressing concerns about job security, and productivity has begun to decline. What is your approach to leading through this transition?

 Work closely with HR to ensure all personnel actions follow proper procedures, communicate changes as they are finalized, and focus on retaining the most technically competent staff while providing standard transition assistance to affected employees.
 Focus primarily on identifying which positions can be eliminated with minimal operational impact, communicate decisions quickly to reduce uncertainty, and rely on remaining supervisors to maintain team morale and productivity.
 Develop a comprehensive communication strategy that provides transparent updates on the situation, implement a fair and objective process for workforce decisions, offer career transition support, and actively engage with remaining staff to maintain focus on mission-critical objectives.
 Wait for official guidance from higher headquarters before making any announcements to staff, then implement all personnel changes simultaneously to minimize the period of uncertainty and disruption.
 Hold regular all-hands meetings to address rumors and concerns, involve branch chiefs in developing retention strategies for key personnel, and implement cross-training programs to ensure continuity of operations with reduced staffing levels.


3.
You are implementing a new partnering initiative with Architect-Engineer firms and construction contractors to improve project delivery and customer satisfaction. Some of your senior staff members are resistant to the collaborative approach, preferring traditional oversight methods. They argue that the new approach compromises quality control and increases risk. How do you lead this organizational change?

 Assign the most resistant staff members to traditional oversight roles while having willing staff lead the partnering initiatives, gradually expanding the collaborative approach as results demonstrate its effectiveness.
 Mandate implementation of the new approach with clear expectations and timelines, provide necessary training resources, and monitor compliance while allowing some flexibility in how individual branches adapt the collaborative methods.
 Clearly communicate the strategic benefits of the partnering approach, provide examples of successful implementations in other districts, establish pilot projects to demonstrate effectiveness, and work individually with resistant staff to address specific concerns.
 Engage resistant staff in developing implementation protocols that address their quality concerns, provide training on collaborative oversight methods, establish clear performance metrics for the new approach, and recognize early adopters while supporting those adapting to change.
 Implement the partnering initiative immediately across all projects, inform staff that resistance to the new approach will be reflected in performance evaluations, and replace any supervisors who cannot adapt to the collaborative methods.


4.
During a critical military construction project review, you discover that the Architect-Engineer firm's design specifications may not fully comply with updated anti-terrorism force protection standards that were recently implemented. The project is already 60% complete, and the using agency is pressing for on-schedule completion. The A-E firm argues their design meets the standards that were in effect when the contract was awarded. How do you address this technical compliance issue?

 Allow construction to continue as planned since the project was already approved and funded, noting that compliance issues can be addressed during future renovation cycles when budget permits.
 Immediately halt construction activities, require the A-E firm to redesign affected elements to meet current standards, and work with the using agency to adjust project timelines and budget to accommodate necessary changes while maintaining full compliance.
 Request a formal interpretation from higher headquarters regarding standard applicability, continue construction on unaffected elements while awaiting guidance, and prepare contingency plans for both compliance scenarios.
 Conduct a comprehensive technical review with subject matter experts to determine specific compliance gaps, evaluate risk levels and mitigation options, coordinate with the using agency and security officials to determine acceptable solutions, and develop a modification strategy that balances security requirements with project constraints.
 Accept the A-E firm's position that original contract standards apply, document the decision with appropriate risk assessments, and proceed with construction while requesting a waiver for any minor compliance variations.


5.
You are reviewing a complex civil works project where the construction contractor has proposed a value engineering change that could save $2M but involves using alternative materials and construction methods not previously used in your district. The contractor provides technical data supporting the change, but your staff has limited experience with the proposed approach. The project schedule is tight, and the local community is eager for completion. How do you evaluate this technical proposal?

 Establish a technical review team to conduct comprehensive testing and analysis of the proposed materials and methods, and make the decision based on thorough technical merit rather than cost savings alone.
 Reject the value engineering proposal since it involves unfamiliar methods and materials, maintaining the original design to avoid any potential risks.
 Have your most experienced technical staff review the proposal and approve the change if they feel the risk is acceptable.
 Request additional technical documentation from the contractor, consult with other districts that may have used similar approaches, conduct a risk-benefit analysis including lifecycle costs, and require performance guarantees before approving the change.
 Charter a time-bound, multi-disciplinary technical review team, including external experts, to validate the proposal against long-term performance and lifecycle cost criteria. Direct the team to produce an expedited recommendation with risk mitigation strategies, and develop a parallel plan to implement the change quickly if it is approved.


6.
During a routine inspection of a major construction project, your field engineers report potential soil stability issues that were not identified in the original geotechnical investigation. The contractor wants to continue work while conducting additional testing, arguing that delays will significantly impact the project schedule and cost. The using agency is concerned about any delays affecting their operational timeline. How do you handle this technical safety issue?

 Allow work to continue in unaffected areas while conducting expedited geotechnical analysis in questionable zones, bring in independent technical experts to validate findings, and implement appropriate design modifications based on confirmed soil conditions.
 Request the original geotechnical consultant to review the field conditions and provide recommendations, continue construction with enhanced monitoring procedures, and address any confirmed issues through standard change order processes.
 Immediately suspend construction activities in affected areas, engage qualified geotechnical engineers to conduct comprehensive subsurface investigation, evaluate all potential impacts on structural integrity and safety, and develop appropriate foundation modifications based on technical findings regardless of schedule implications.
 Require the contractor to conduct additional soil testing at their expense while continuing non-foundation work, review test results with your technical staff, and modify construction methods as needed based on confirmed conditions.
 Accept the contractor's assessment that the soil conditions are within acceptable parameters for the original design, continue construction as planned while documenting the field observations for future reference.


7.
You are developing the annual program plan for your $600M construction portfolio amid significant uncertainty about future military appropriations. Historical funding has fluctuated between $400M and $800M annually. You have $750M in validated requirements but preliminary budget guidance suggests only $500M may be available. Multiple stakeholders are pressing for their projects to be prioritized. How do you approach this planning challenge?

 Plan for the full $750M requirement while identifying which projects could be quickly cancelled if funding is reduced, assuming that strong justification will help secure adequate appropriations for high-priority requirements.
 Focus planning on the most likely funding scenario while preparing contingency plans for higher and lower funding levels, engage with stakeholders to understand their minimum acceptable requirements, and build flexibility into contract strategies.
 Develop multiple funding scenarios with corresponding project portfolios, establish clear prioritization criteria based on mission criticality and strategic objectives, create flexible execution strategies that can adapt to funding changes, and maintain stakeholder engagement through transparent communication of planning assumptions and decision rationale.
 Prioritize projects based on mission criticality and readiness timelines, develop a tiered execution plan that can accommodate funding variations, and work with stakeholders to identify which projects can be deferred or phased to match available resources.
 Wait for final budget guidance before developing detailed plans, since planning based on uncertain funding levels will likely require complete revision and waste planning resources.


8.
Your division is managing multiple concurrent projects with interdependent timelines and shared resources. A critical military project has experienced delays due to design changes, which will impact the availability of key technical staff for two other high-priority projects. The using agencies for all three projects are demanding adherence to original schedules. How do you manage these competing priorities and resource constraints?

 Focus available resources on the most critical project while working with other using agencies to identify acceptable schedule adjustments, and develop recovery plans to minimize overall program delays.
 Inform all using agencies that they must accept delays since the division cannot control design changes and resource conflicts, and that schedules will be updated as resources become available.
 Maintain original schedules for all projects by authorizing overtime and temporary staff augmentation, accepting higher costs to meet stakeholder expectations and avoid difficult renegotiations.
 Conduct comprehensive analysis of all project interdependencies and resource requirements, develop integrated scheduling solutions that optimize overall program performance, communicate trade-offs and revised timelines to all stakeholders with clear rationale, and implement enhanced coordination mechanisms to prevent future conflicts.
 Evaluate the relative priority and flexibility of each project, negotiate revised schedules with affected using agencies based on resource availability, and implement temporary resource augmentation strategies such as contractor support or staff reassignments.


9.
You are evaluating the performance of your division's partnering initiative with A-E firms and contractors, which was implemented to improve project delivery and customer satisfaction. Initial metrics show mixed results: some projects have improved collaboration and reduced change orders, while others show increased coordination time and unclear accountability. Stakeholders have varying opinions on the program's effectiveness. How do you evaluate and improve this initiative?

 Compare project performance data before and after partnering implementation, survey participants to understand their experiences and concerns, identify best practices from successful projects, and modify the approach based on lessons learned.
 Develop comprehensive performance metrics that capture both quantitative outcomes and qualitative benefits, conduct detailed analysis of successful versus problematic implementations to identify critical success factors, gather structured feedback from all stakeholders, and implement targeted improvements based on evidence-based findings.
 Discontinue the partnering initiative since mixed results indicate it is not providing clear benefits, and return to traditional project delivery methods that have proven track records.
 Focus evaluation on measurable outcomes such as schedule performance and cost control, interview key stakeholders to understand their perspectives, and make adjustments to address the most commonly cited concerns.
 Continue the current approach while monitoring basic performance indicators, assuming that benefits will become more apparent as participants gain experience with collaborative methods.


10.
Your division is undergoing a significant reorganization to better align with changing mission requirements and reduced funding levels. The reorganization involves consolidating some branches, creating new functional areas, and implementing matrix management for certain specialized capabilities. Staff members are expressing concerns about career progression, role clarity, and reporting relationships. How do you manage this organizational change?

 Implement all organizational changes simultaneously to minimize transition time, focus primarily on structural changes rather than cultural adaptation, and address individual concerns as they arise rather than proactively managing the change process.
 Clearly communicate the rationale for organizational changes and expected benefits, provide detailed information about new roles and reporting relationships, offer training on new processes and procedures, and establish regular check-ins to address concerns and adjust implementation as needed.
 Announce the new organizational structure with implementation timelines, provide written guidance on new roles and responsibilities, and expect staff to adapt to changes with minimal additional support since reorganizations are routine in government.
 Develop a comprehensive change management strategy that includes stakeholder analysis, communication planning, training programs, and feedback mechanisms; engage employees in designing new processes and structures; provide clear transition timelines and support systems; and establish metrics to monitor organizational effectiveness throughout the change process.
 Implement changes in phases to allow gradual adaptation, provide basic orientation on new organizational structure, and rely on supervisors to help their teams understand and adapt to new roles and processes.


11.
You have identified that your division's current performance management system is not effectively developing staff capabilities or supporting succession planning for key technical and leadership positions. Staff feedback indicates that performance discussions focus primarily on task completion rather than professional development, and there is limited visibility into career progression opportunities. How do you improve the organization's performance management and development approach?

 Modify performance evaluation forms to include development sections, provide basic guidance to supervisors on career counseling, and rely on existing training programs to address skill development needs.
 Revise performance evaluation processes to include development planning and career discussions, provide training for supervisors on effective performance management techniques, and create formal succession planning for critical positions.
 Supplement current performance evaluations with individual development plans, encourage supervisors to have more frequent career discussions with staff, and identify high-potential employees for additional development opportunities.
 Maintain the current performance management system since it meets regulatory requirements, and assume that motivated employees will pursue their own professional development through available training opportunities.
 Design an integrated performance and development system that aligns individual goals with organizational objectives, incorporates competency-based assessments and development planning, establishes mentoring and succession planning programs, and includes regular feedback mechanisms to ensure the system meets both individual and organizational needs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙