Position Title
Supervisory Civil Engineer
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12933061-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


COE
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This is an Army Acquisition, Logistics and Technology Workforce position. Selectee must meet position requirements for CONTRACTING certification within 36 months as of entrance on duty. Are you currently certified or willing and able to obtain and maintain certification for this position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS:

You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.

Each question has five response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.

There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.

Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.



1.
You are the Section Chief preparing for a quarterly progress meeting with the District Commander and Division Chiefs. Your team has completed 85% of planned construction inspections, but two major projects experienced significant delays due to contractor quality control failures that your team identified and stopped. One Division Chief informally expressed concern about the project delays impacting the overall district performance metrics. How do you structure your report for the meeting?

 Provide a balanced report showing both the completion metrics and the quality issues discovered, briefly mention the schedule impacts, and indicate that your team followed standard quality assurance procedures in stopping the work without offering recommendations for systemic improvements.
 Present the inspection completion rate alongside the specific quality failures prevented, quantify the potential cost impacts of allowing deficient work to proceed, and recommend process improvements to prevent similar contractor deficiencies on future projects while acknowledging the schedule impacts.
 Emphasize the team's high performance in catching serious quality deficiencies and frame the project delays as necessary protective actions, minimize discussion of the completion rate since quality should take precedence over schedule, and suggest the contractors should be held fully accountable.
 Present only the 85% completion rate and general project status updates without specifically addressing the delays or quality failures, since discussing problems in front of multiple Division Chiefs could reflect poorly on your team's ability to manage contractor relationships effectively.
 Focus the report on the 85% completion rate and the team's technical expertise in identifying critical quality issues, provide detailed documentation of the contractor failures, and explain that stopping deficient work aligns with the district's quality assurance mission regardless of schedule concerns.


2.
You have recently assumed supervision of a quality assurance section with eight engineers and technicians. During your initial review, you discover that three senior engineers consistently receive "Exceeds Expectations" ratings and handle the most complex projects, while two mid-level engineers receive "Fully Successful" ratings and are assigned primarily routine inspections. The two mid-level engineers have expressed frustration about limited growth opportunities. One has applied for positions in other districts. What is your approach to addressing this situation?

 Reassign one complex project to each mid-level engineer with senior engineer oversight, provide them access to relevant training courses and technical references, schedule monthly check-ins to discuss their progress and challenges, and ensure their performance plans include developmental objectives that align with more advanced work.
 Explain to the mid-level engineers that the senior engineers earned their positions through years of experience and that they should focus on excelling at routine inspections first, offer to support their applications to other districts if they want faster advancement, and maintain the current assignment structure since it efficiently utilizes each person's demonstrated capabilities.
 Announce that you will rotate complex project assignments more equitably across the team, send the mid-level engineers to available training courses related to advanced quality assurance techniques, and revise the performance appraisal criteria to better recognize different types of contributions beyond just project complexity.
 Conduct individual development discussions with each mid-level engineer to identify specific skill gaps and career goals, create a structured mentoring program pairing them with senior engineers on complex projects, establish clear performance metrics for advancement, and implement a recognition program that acknowledges both technical excellence and developmental progress.
 Immediately reassign the most complex projects to the mid-level engineers to demonstrate confidence in their abilities and address their concerns about growth opportunities, while directing the senior engineers to focus on training and mentoring activities since they have already proven their technical competence.


3.
It is mid-November, and your section is responsible for quality assurance oversight of twelve active construction projects. You receive notification that a high-priority levee rehabilitation project must be advertised by December 15th and requires comprehensive constructability review by your team—approximately 120 hours of work. Simultaneously, three ongoing projects are approaching critical concrete pours scheduled for early December that require your team's presence, and annual performance appraisals are due December 10th. Your team is already working at full capacity. How do you adjust the workload?

 Distribute all the work evenly across your team so that everyone contributes to each task, require the team to work weekends until everything is complete by the established deadlines, and explain that meeting all commitments simultaneously demonstrates the section's capability and dedication to the mission.
 Prioritize the levee constructability review and critical concrete pours as mission-essential work, request temporary support from another district section or hire a contractor to assist with the review, maintain the scheduled concrete pour coverage, and request a two-week extension for performance appraisals while ensuring all team members are informed of the revised timeline.
 Direct your team to focus exclusively on the levee constructability review since it has a firm deadline and is high priority, reschedule the concrete pours to January when your workload decreases, and complete performance appraisals during the slower period after the holidays when you can give them proper attention.
 Analyze each commitment against mission priorities and available resources, negotiate a one-week extension for the constructability review with the design team while committing specific personnel, defer non-critical routine inspections on lower-priority projects, assign the concrete pour oversight to your most experienced engineers, and complete performance appraisals for half the team before December 10th with the remainder by December 20th after coordinating with HR.
 Assign overtime to senior engineers to complete the constructability review, maintain all scheduled concrete pour inspections with existing staff, and work evenings yourself to complete all performance appraisals by the December 10th deadline to avoid any delays in the administrative process.


4.
During a routine inspection of a flood control structure project, you observe that the contractor's Quality Control Manager has approved concrete placement despite test cylinders from the previous pour showing compressive strength results 8% below specification requirements. The contractor's CQC documentation indicates the pour was acceptable based on their interpretation that the specification allows for statistical variation. The GQA inspector noted the discrepancy but did not stop work. Concrete trucks are currently on-site ready to pour into the next section. What action do you take?

 Consult with the Resident Engineer about the strength deficiency before acting, request that the contractor provide additional test cylinders from the next pour to verify their quality control procedures are adequate and remind the GQA inspector to document all specification deviations more clearly in future reports.
 Stop the current concrete pour and convene an immediate on-site meeting with the contractor's QC Manager and GQA inspector to review the specification requirements, obtain clarification from the structural design engineer regarding acceptable strength variations, and require additional testing of the questionable concrete section before authorizing continuation of work.
 Document the specification discrepancy and direct the GQA inspector to increase testing frequency on all subsequent pours, allow the current pour to proceed since the concrete trucks are already on-site and delays are costly, and require the contractor to submit a formal evaluation of the deficient concrete for engineering review within 48 hours.
 Immediately direct the GQA inspector to stop the concrete placement, review the specification requirements and test data with both the contractor's QC Manager and GQA inspector to clarify acceptance criteria, require the contractor to submit a technical analysis of the deficient concrete's structural adequacy, and schedule a meeting with the Resident Engineer to determine the appropriate corrective action before any additional concrete is placed.
 Accept the contractor's interpretation that statistical variation is inherent in concrete testing and allows the work to continue but requires the contractor to achieve higher strengths on subsequent pours to compensate for the deficiency, and document the issue in your inspection report for the project file.


5.
You are reviewing quarterly quality assurance metrics across the district's fifteen active construction projects. You notice that one Area Office has a deficiency identification rate, 60% lower than other offices, despite managing projects of similar complexity and contract value. Their GQA documentation appears complete, and the Resident Engineer reports that projects are progressing smoothly with minimal contractor issues. However, two projects in that office have recently experienced rework due to issues discovered during final inspections that should have been caught earlier. How do you address this situation?

 Conduct an on-site assessment of the Area Office's quality assurance implementation, observe their inspection procedures and documentation practices, interview GQA inspectors and review their training records, compare their inspection checklists and acceptance criteria against district standards, and develop a corrective action plan that may include additional training, revised procedures, or personnel adjustments based on your findings.
 Immediately reassign the Area Office's most complex projects to offices with stronger quality assurance performance, replace the senior GQA inspector with someone from a higher-performing office, and implement weekly reporting requirements for that office until their deficiency identification rates align with district averages.
 Issue guidance to all Area Offices reinforcing district quality assurance standards and inspection requirements, assign an experienced GQA inspector from another office to work with the underperforming office for one month to observe and provide recommendations, and increase your personal site visits to that office's projects over the next quarter.
 Recognize that lower deficiency rates may indicate effective contractor quality control rather than inadequate government oversight, focus your attention on the offices with higher deficiency rates since they may need additional support, and continue monitoring the Area Office's metrics to see if the rework issues represent an emerging trend or isolated incidents.
 Schedule a meeting with the Area Office Resident Engineer and senior GQA inspector to discuss the metrics discrepancy and recent rework issues, review several recent inspection reports in detail to identify potential gaps in their quality assurance approach, and require them to submit a self-assessment of their QA program with recommendations for improvement within two weeks.


6.
A contractor on a major pumping station project has proposed a value engineering change that would substitute a different foundation construction method than specified in the contract. The proposed method would reduce construction time by three weeks and save approximately $180,000. The contractor has provided calculations from their engineer showing the alternative method meets structural requirements. However, the method has limited application history in similar soil conditions, and your district's standard practice has been to use the specified approach for this type of structure. The contractor is requesting approval to proceed. How do you evaluate this proposal?

 Forward the contractor's proposal to the original design engineer for technical review and recommendation, request that the contractor provide references from similar projects where the method was successfully used and conduct additional geotechnical testing at the site to verify that soil conditions are suitable for the alternative method before proceeding with further evaluation.
 Approve the value engineering change since the contractor has provided engineering calculations demonstrating structural adequacy and the cost savings benefit the government but require enhanced inspection and testing during construction of the alternative foundation system to ensure quality standards are maintained.
 Require the contractor to provide comprehensive technical documentation including detailed geotechnical analysis for the specific site conditions, peer review by a qualified independent engineer, construction quality control procedures specific to the alternative method, and performance guarantees, then coordinate a technical review with your district's geotechnical and structural engineers to evaluate the proposal against applicable codes, standards, and risk factors before making a recommendation to the Contracting Officer.
 Convene a technical review team including your structural and geotechnical engineers to evaluate the contractor's calculations and methodology, research the alternative method's performance history in comparable applications, require the contractor to provide additional analysis addressing the specific soil conditions and any increased quality control requirements, and prepare a risk assessment comparing both methods before recommending approval or rejection.
 Acknowledge the potential cost and schedule benefits but explain that the district's standard practice exists for proven reliability, suggest the contractor proceeds with the specified method to avoid technical risks and potential delays from unforeseen issues, and indicate that value engineering proposals are better suited for the design phase rather than during construction.


7.
The Division has issued new policy guidance on quality management for construction projects that incorporate updated industry standards and emphasize risk-based inspection approaches. Your district's current Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for quality assurance were last updated four years ago and focus primarily on prescriptive inspection checklists. You have been tasked with updating the district SOPs to align with the new Division policy while ensuring they remain practical for your field offices to implement. What is your approach?

 Analyze the Division policy requirements and compare them against current district practices, draft updated SOPs that incorporate the risk-based inspection concepts while maintaining compatibility with existing district processes, circulate the draft to all Area Offices and technical specialists for review and comment, revise based on feedback, and schedule training sessions to explain the changes before implementing the new procedures.
 Adopt the Division policy guidance as the district's updated SOP since it already incorporates current industry standards and risk-based approaches, distribute it to all field offices with instructions to follow Division procedures, and supplement it with district-specific guidance only where local conditions or project types require additional clarification beyond the Division policy.
 Revise the district SOPs by adding the Division's risk-based inspection requirements to the existing prescriptive checklists so that field offices have comprehensive procedures covering all approaches, implement the updated SOPs immediately to demonstrate compliance with Division policy, and address any implementation issues as they arise through supplemental guidance memoranda.
 Review the Division policy guidance and identify the specific changes required to district SOPs, update the procedures to incorporate the new risk-based inspection requirements and industry standards, distribute the revised SOPs to all field offices with a memorandum explaining the changes and the implementation timeline, and make yourself available to answer questions during the transition period.
 Form a working group including experienced field engineers, GQA inspectors, and technical specialists to review the Division policy and current SOPs, conduct a gap analysis identifying areas requiring updates, develop draft procedures incorporating risk-based approaches while retaining essential prescriptive elements, pilot test the revised procedures on two projects with different complexity levels, gather feedback from field users, and refine the SOPs before district-wide implementation with accompanying training.


8.
A contractor has submitted a Request for Equitable Adjustment (REA) claiming $340,000 for additional work due to differing site conditions encountered during excavation for a flood control channel. The contractor's cost breakdown includes equipment, labor, materials, and a 15% markup. You need to prepare an independent government estimate to support negotiations. The contractor's schedule shows the additional work required 12 days, but your field engineers believe the work could have been accomplished in 8 days with proper planning. The contractor used a larger excavator than typically necessary for this type of work. How do you prepare your cost estimate?

 Prepare an estimate based on what the work should have cost if the differing site conditions had been identified during design, calculate costs using the most economical equipment and methods available, and present this as the government's position since the contractor has a responsibility to minimize costs regardless of unforeseen conditions.
 Review the contractor's submitted costs against your knowledge of typical rates for similar work, adjust the equipment costs to reflect appropriately-sized machinery for the scope of work, reduce the duration to 8 days based on your field engineers' assessment, apply standard labor and material rates from government cost databases, and document your estimate with references to the sources used for each cost component.
 Develop an independent estimate using reasonable equipment and crew sizes for the actual site conditions encountered, base labor and equipment hours on efficient execution of the changed work, verify material quantities against field measurements, apply appropriate government cost databases and local market rates, include detailed justification for any deviations from the contractor's approach, and prepare a comprehensive analysis documenting the basis for each cost element to support the negotiation position.
 Use the contractor's cost breakdown as a baseline but reduce the equipment costs to reflect standard-sized machinery, adjust the duration from 12 days to 10 days as a compromise between the contractor's schedule and your field engineers' estimate, accept the labor and material costs as reasonable, and prepare a brief justification explaining that the contractor's approach was inefficient.
 Analyze each element of the contractor's cost breakdown independently, determine reasonable equipment types and production rates for the differing site conditions, calculate labor hours based on standard productivity factors adjusted for site-specific constraints, verify material costs against current market prices, and prepare an estimate with supporting documentation that identifies specific areas of disagreement with the contractor's claimed costs.


9.
Your team has completed negotiations on a complex contract modification involving both contractor claims for delay impacts ($280,000) and a government-directed design change ($150,000). The negotiated settlement is $310,000 total, representing a compromise where the government accepted partial responsibility for schedule delays but reduced the contractor's claimed delay costs by 35% based on concurrent contractor-caused delays. The contractor has agreed to the settlement. You are directing preparation of the Price Negotiation Memorandum (PNM). What guidance do you provide for your team?

 Direct preparation of a streamlined PNM since both parties have agreed to the settlement, focusing on documenting the final negotiated amount of $310,000, providing a brief explanation that it represents a compromise on both the delay claim and design change, and including the basic cost breakdown and contractor's acceptance to support Contracting Officer approval.
 Direct the team to prepare a comprehensive PNM that separately documents the analysis and negotiation of each component, clearly explains the government's position on the delay claim including the basis for the 35% reduction with supporting schedule analysis, details the cost breakdown for the design change, describes the negotiation strategy and outcome, demonstrates that the settlement is fair and reasonable, and includes all supporting documentation required for Contracting Officer approval and potential audit review.
 Instruct the team to document the complete negotiation history including initial positions of both parties, provide detailed cost analysis supporting the government's evaluation of each claim element, explain the rationale for accepting partial delay responsibility and the methodology for calculating concurrent delays, show how the final settlement amount was determined, and ensure all required cost and price analysis documentation is included.
 Instruct the team to prepare separate PNMs for the delay claim and design change to clearly distinguish between the contractor claim and government-directed work, document each negotiation independently with its own cost analysis and justification, and submit them as two distinct modifications to simplify the approval process and future project cost tracking.
 Have the team prepares a PNM that outlines the two modification components, summarizes the contractor's initial claims and the government's evaluation, explains the negotiated settlement amount and how it was calculated, includes the key supporting documentation such as cost estimates and schedule analysis, and provides sufficient justification for the Contracting Officer to approve the modification.


10.
You are reviewing plans and specifications for a levee rehabilitation project scheduled for advertising in three weeks. During your review, you identify that the specifications require a specific geotextile fabric that only one manufacturer produces, the design drawings show a drainage detail that conflicts with the specifications, and the construction sequence in the specifications does not account for environmental restrictions during fish spawning season (April-June) that will require work stoppages. The project is programmed for award in the current fiscal year, and the design team is under pressure to advertise on schedule. How do you proceed?

 Immediately notify the design team of the critical issues that must be resolved before advertisement, provide written documentation of the sole-source specification problem, the drawing-specification conflict, and the environmental restriction omission, explain the potential for claims and modifications if these are not corrected, and recommend delaying advertisement until the design package is revised to address these deficiencies.
 Prepare a comprehensive review comment memorandum identifying all three issues with recommendations for resolution, submit it to the design team through official channels, and indicate that the construction division cannot support advertisement until at least the specification conflict and environmental restrictions are addressed, while noting that the sole-source geotextile issue should also be corrected to promote competition.
 Submit review comments documenting the issues for the project record but recommend proceeding with advertisement on schedule since contractors will identify these problems during the bid process and can request clarification through the RFI process, and any necessary changes can be addressed through modifications after contract award to avoid delaying the project.
 Contact the design team to discuss the issues informally before submitting official comments, suggest that the geotextile specification and drawing conflict should be corrected before advertising, but indicate that the environmental restrictions could be addressed through a pre-bid amendment or modification after award since contractors should be aware of standard environmental requirements in the area.
 Document all three issues with specific references to the conflicting or problematic specification and drawing sections, prepare a detailed memorandum to the design team explaining how each issue will likely result in modifications or claims, recommend specific corrective actions including revising the geotextile specification to allow approved equals, resolving the drainage detail conflict, and adding clear environmental restriction language with schedule adjustments, and request a meeting with the design team and project manager to discuss the necessary changes and realistic advertisement timeline.


Assessment 2
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Civil Engineer position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Civil Engineer in the Federal Service. Transcripts are required at the time of application.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Civil Engineer at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1). Provides support to the Area/Resident Engineers which involves research, coordination, or field visits to resolve complex problems and to furnish guidance for both technical and contract administration field changes during construction. 2). Develops performance plans and identifying developmental and training needs of employees. 3). Provides training to field offices on construction management, construction procedures and methods, quality assurance, and safety. 4). Provides technical and contract administration support to the Project Delivery Team during the project’s Pre-construction Engineering and Design phase.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


This position has a selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
This position requires the possession of a current Professional Engineer (PE) issued by any State in the United States, the District of Columbia,Guam, or Puerto Rico. Are you currently registered as a Professional Engineer issued by any one of the 50 states, or its territories? (You must attach current and valid documentation indicating your Professional Engineering registration number, the state in which you are registered,and the expiration date).

 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙