Position Title
Assistant Director
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
328-26-RZ-13054949-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Assistant Director position with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 
We will evaluate your resume and your response to this Occupational Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Time-in-Grade: For this vacancy, applicants must have held a GS-14 grade or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-15 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


1.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade at the GS-14 level or higher to qualify at the GS-15 grade level? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-14 grade level or higher.
 No, I do not have at least (1) year time-in-grade at the GS-14 grade level or higher


This section includes questions regarding qualifications for this position. Select the appropriate response to the following question based upon your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position. Your response(s) must be clearly documented AND supported in your submitted resume/application materials. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selection is subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.


2.
To qualify at the GS-15 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level or higher. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the executive-level knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of an Assistant Director in a Veterans Benefits Administration Regional Office. To be creditable, the experience must demonstrate all of the following activities, performed in a Regional Office, VA business line, VISN, or similar large, complex Federal or private-sector organization:
Managing or directing program operations that deliver benefits or services to Veterans or comparable populations.
Establishing priorities, determining resource needs, and allocating staff and funds to meet program objectives.
Directing or coordinating personnel management actions such as hiring, performance management, labor/employee relations, organizational changes, or workforce planning.
Conducting or overseeing complex program reviews, operational assessments, compliance reviews, or performance evaluations.
Monitoring and controlling program effectiveness, including analyzing policies, directives, procedures, and long- and short-range organizational goals to identify improvement needs.
Representing organizational leadership with internal and external stakeholders, including participating on committees, workgroups, or interagency engagements.
Leading cross-functional teams or subordinate supervisors/managers to resolve operational issues, improve performance, or implement new policies or processes.
 Yes, I have one full year of GS-14 grade level experience described above and this experience has been clearly documented and supported in my submitted application documents.
 No, I do not have the specialized experience described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙