Position Title
PREVENTION AND EDUCATION SPECIALIST (FAP)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
JRM-26-127 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


8.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or certification to qualify for the NAF Prevention and Education Specialist (Family Advocacy Program) position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.


1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Social Work
 Psychology
 Marriage and Family Therapy
 Counseling
 Behavioral Science
 Public Health
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you have two years of experience in a family and children's services public agency or family and children's services community organization, one year of which is in prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 Yes
 No


3.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0101 series, which of the following do you possess?

 I have at least 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience in providing prevention and education services in problematic sexual behaviors in children and youth; as well as domestic, interpersonal, and family violence, to include child abuse and neglect.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I do not have any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙