Position Title
Medical Records Technician-Health Information Technician (HIT)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12844298-26-LLL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Wednesday, December 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) position at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center. To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. Please read each question and answer carefully.


1.
Basic Requirements: Select the statement below that best describes you meet the basic requirements for this position.





 I have one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, and a general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT HIT work.
 I have an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 I have equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education that are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management. OR Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the U.S. Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.
 I do not meet the basic requirements as described above.


2.
GS-05 Experience or Education. In addition to the basic experience/education requirement, you can qualify based on experience or education. Select the appropriate response that describes your qualification for this grade level:
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-4).
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy & physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). I do not have the experience or education to qualify for the GS-05.
 I do not have the experience or education to qualify for the GS-05.


3.
In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-05 level, Candidates must also demonstrate all of the knowledge, skills, and abilities below:
Ability to communicate effectively with internal and external customers.
Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in health information management positions (e.g., Microsoft Excel, electronic health records, and delinquency tracking software).
Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and industry standards.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes.
Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy to fully understand the content of a health record.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?


 Yes, I meet the requirements.
 No, I do not meet the requirements.


4.
GS-06 Experience. Do you have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level?


 Yes, I possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.
 No, I do not possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.


5.
In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-06 level, candidates must also demonstrate all of the knowledge, skills, and abilities below:
Ability to navigate efficiently through the health record to locate needed information.
Ability to analyze health record documentation to ensure compliance with guidelines and industry standards.
Skill in investigating potential health record errors and making corrections, when appropriate.
Skill in interpreting and applying health information guidelines and using judgment to complete assignments.
Ability to follow up on incomplete health record documentation.

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?



 Yes, I meet the requirements.
 No, I do not meet the requirements.


6.
GS-07 Experience. Do you have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level.


 Yes, I possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level.
 No, I do not possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level.


7.
In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-07 level, candidates must also demonstrate all of the knowledge, skills, and abilities below:
Ability to judge whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support education and research needs.
Ability to take appropriate actions if health record content is not adequate, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with individuals or groups, to facilitate compliance with established policies and regulations.
Skill in using appropriate software and computer applications to analyze and record documentation trends.
Ability to apply qualitative and/or quantitative methods for assessment and improvement of health records.
Ability to work independently and utilize problem-solving techniques in the accomplishment of work.

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?



 Yes, I meet the requirements.
 No, I do not meet the requirements.


Pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum (PM) dated January 20, 2025, Return to In-Person Work, VA is implementing an RTO effort to ensure all employees work full-time from agency worksites, unless excused due to approved exceptions. VHA remains committed to returning all telework and remote employees to agency worksites in accordance with the presidential memorandum. 

These positions are currently designated as remote. Remote work is defined as full-time employment conducted outside of a VA facility or in VA-leased spaces. The option for remote work will be assessed continuously, and the selected individual(s) may need to return to a VA office if required. 

To remain in compliance, you must live within commuting distance (50-mile radius) of a VA Medical Center (not a VA Clinic or CBOC).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Do you live within commuting distance (50-mile radius of a VA Medical Center? 
 Yes
 No


9.
Please provide in the textbox below the City and State of the VA Medical Center you live within commuting distance of. 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙