Position Title
General Engineer/Scientist (NRAN)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DEST-13047029-26-BD Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30% or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Transfer Eligible

Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position
-and-
have completed an initial appointment probation or trial period?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).
Note: NRC employees should select 'No' for this question as excepted service employees.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interchange Agreement Eligible

Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

-AND/OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Health Administration Employee
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) Employee
Tennessee Valley Authority Employee
Federal Aviation Administration Employee
Transportation Security Administration Employee
Americorps Employee
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems: Types of Appointments

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

Note: NRC employees will be considered under a different authority and should answer 'no' to this question.
 Yes
 No


5.

Military Spouse Eligible

Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is eligible for non-competitive appointment of certain military spouses? You are eligible if you: 

Are married to an active-duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days; OR 

Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury; OR 

Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty. 

You are required to support your claim with the documents below: 

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate); AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active-duty service for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter); OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).
For more information, please see Military Spouse Hiring Path.
 Yes
 No


6.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


7.
Peace Corps/VISTA Eligible

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? 
- OR - 
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? 
- OR - 
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reinstatement Eligible

Are you a former Federal Employee who previously held a permanent position and is eligible for reinstatement?

To verify eligibility, you must submit your qualifying SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade; salary; and full performance level.
 Yes
 No


9.
Schedule A Eligible

Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities page.
 Yes
 No


10.
VEOA Eligible

Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:  
served three or more years of continuous active-duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); -OR- 
are entitled to veterans' preference?  
For more information, please review USAJOBS Veterans resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


11.
Veterans Recruitment Appointment Eligible

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
are a disabled veteran;
served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition;
received an Armed Forces Service Medal; -OR-
were recently separated from active duty (within the last 3 years).
For more information, please review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science
 C. 1550 - Computer Science
 D. 1560 - Data Science Series


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


4.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please read each question carefully and respond to each question with accuracy and honesty. This assessment is designed to evaluate your qualifications and suitability for the position and your answers will be used to determine your eligibility and fit for the role. Transcripts are required as part of your application so please ensure all materials are submitted as outlined in the vacancy announcement. Incomplete or missing documents may affect your eligibility. Your responses are subject to verification. Any false or misleading information may result in removal from consideration or termination of employment.


1.
From the following list, please select the choice that matches your educational background.
 I completed (or will be completing) a degree in the field of Engineering, Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity from an accredited university or college between July 2026 and June 2027.
 I completed a degree in the field of Engineering, Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity from an accredited university or college prior to July 2026.
 I do not have nor do I expect to receive a degree in the field of Engineering, Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity from an accredited university or college by June 2027.


2.
Please confirm the level of degree that you have completed (or that will be conferred) between July 2026 and June 2027.
 GG-07: I will be completing my Bachelor's degree in or related to an Engineering, Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity discipline between July 2026 and June 2027.
 GG-09: I will be completing my Master's degree in or related to an Engineering, Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity discipline between July 2026 and June 2027.
 GG-11: I will be completing my Doctoral degree in or related to an Engineering, Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity discipline between July 2026 and June 2027.
 None of the above.


3.
What is your cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) for your qualifying degree? Applicants are responsible for converting to a 4.0 scale if another is used.
 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is 3.5 to 4.0
 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is 3.2 to 3.49
 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is 3.0 to 3.19
 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is below 3.0, BUT the GPA in my major is 3.5 or above
 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is below 3.0, AND the GPA in my major is below 3.5
 none of the above


4.
Please indicate the response that most accurately describes your work experience since entering college.
 I have worked directly for the NRC in a technical position (e.g., Summer-hire, Cooperative Education Student, etc.)
 I have technical work experience related to my area of study (e.g., ., a summer job, internship, co-op or research assistantship in either Engineering or Physical Science, Computer Science, Data Science, or Cybersecurity).
 I have no technical work experience, BUT I have non-technical work experience (e.g., retail sales, administrative, etc.)
 I do not have any work experience.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately describes your academic honors and awards.
 I have received multiple academic awards and/or scholarships from professional or technical organizations, associations, companies, etc. (e.g., Dean's List, academic scholarships, induction into the Honor Society, etc.).
 I have received one academic award or one scholarship from a professional or technical organization, association, etc.
 I have not received any academic awards, and am not a member of any professional or technical society.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately describes your extracurricular activities.
 I am an active member in multiple professional or technical societies (e.g., ANS, IEEE, ASME, SHPE, NSBE, SWE, etc.).
 I am an active member of one professional or technical society.
 I am not an active member of any professional or technical society, BUT I do have a leadership role in another extracurricular/student organization (e.g., President, Vice President, Secretary, or Treasurer of a club or fraternity/sorority chapter).
 I am not an active member of one professional or technical society, and I do have a leadership role in another extracurricular/student organization.


7.
Please confirm whether you have completed the following courses (at least three credits each) at an accredited university or college with a grade of B-minus or higher in each class: at least two courses in either engineering or physical science, and at least two courses in college-level mathematics (e.g., calculus, statistics, linear algebra, differential equations, etc.).  These courses must be reflected on the transcript(s) you provide as part of your application materials.
 I have completed at least two courses in either engineering or physical science and at least two courses in college-level mathematics with a grade of B- or higher.
 I have not completed at least two courses in either engineering or physical science and at least two courses in college-level mathematics with a grade of B- or higher.


8.
What is the official title of your academic degree in the field of Engineering or Physical Science that you expect to obtain by June 2027?
Chemical Engineering
Chemistry
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Cybersecurity
Data Science
Electrical Engineering
Electronics Engineering
Environmental Engineering
Environmental Science
Fire Protection Engineering
Geology
Geophysics
Geotechnical Engineering
Health Physics (including concentrations in Radiation Biology, Waste Management, Environmental Health, Risk Communication, Radiation Chemistry, Radiation Dosimetry, Radiation Ecology, Epidemiology, Medical Physics, Radiation Oncology/Technology)
Hydrology
Industrial Engineering (Human Factors)
Materials Science/Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering
Meteorology
Nuclear/Radiological Engineering
Physics
Radiological Sciences
Seismology
Structural Engineering
Systems Engineering
Welding Engineering
Other


9.
Are you currently participating in the NRC's Student Cooperative Education Program (Co-Op)?
 Yes
 No


10.
Have you received a scholarship or fellowship through an NRC grant funded program?
 Yes
 No


11.
What school are you attending (or graduated from) with your degree in engineering or physical science?
Alabama A&M University
Bowie State University
Case Western Reserve University
City College of New York/ City University of New York (CCNY/CUNY)
Clark Atlanta University
Clemson University
Florida International University
Florida Memorial University
Fort Lewis College
Fort Valley State University
Georgia Institute of Technology
Grambling State University
Hampton University
Howard University
Idaho State University
Louisiana State University
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Morehouse College
Morgan State University
New Mexico State University
North Carolina A&T State University
North Carolina State University
Northeastern State University
Ohio State University
Oregon State University
Pennsylvania State University
Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico
Purdue University
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
South Carolina State University
Southern University
Spelman College
Texas A&M University-College Station
Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Thomas Edison State University
Tuskegee University
Universidad Ana G. Mendez
University of California-Berkeley
University of Florida
University of Houston
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
University of Maryland-Baltimore County
University of Maryland-College Park
University of Maryland-Global Campus
University of Massachusetts-Lowell
University of Michigan
University of Missouri-Columbia
University of Nevada-Las Vegas
University of Nevada-Reno
University of New Mexico
University of North Carolina
University of Pittsburgh
University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez
University of Tennessee
University of Texas-Austin
University of Texas-El Paso
University of Texas-Permian Basin
University of Texas-San Antonio
University of Wisconsin-Madison
Utah State University
Virginia Commonwealth University
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Western Carolina University
Other


12.
How did you first hear about this job opportunity at the NRC?
NRC Website
USAJOBS.gov
Online job search website (excluding USAJOBS.gov)
Online Banner Ad
Social Media (ex. Linkedln, Facebook, Twitter)
Magazine or newspaper advertisement
Career Fair Exhibit
Veteran's Organization
Professional meeting
Current NRC employee
Professor or Colleague
Friend or relative
Other


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
Did a current NRC employee inform you of this position or encouraged you to apply? If so, please provide the name of the employee in the space provided. (Maximum length of 100 characters.) If you were not referred, please answer N/A.
 Yes
 No


13a.
What is the name of the NRC employee that informed you of the position or encouraged you to apply?


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙