Position Title
FUL-Park Ranger (I)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1542-AGFO2613039332FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 75 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location: Harrison, NE

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


3.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-05/07/09 position. Please note that your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified against the information you provide in your resume / application package and information your references provide. (Note: The quality, type, and scope of your experience and / or training must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of this position and your resume and/or application package must support the responses you select.)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-05. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet the requirements of this question, you will be rated ineligible.
 I possess 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-04 performing duties such as interpretation park ranger, park guide, or tour group presenter; experience with working at a visitor center or public facing facility; environmental educator or teacher; archeological or historical preservation research with an emphasis on interpretation and public engagement; forestry and/or fire management work in a park with emphasis on public engagement, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the public interpretation of related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work.
 I possess 4 years course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with 24 semester hours of related course work.
 I do not have the level of experience described in the statements above.
 I meet requirements based on a combination of education and experience.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-07. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet the requirements of this question, you will be rated ineligible.
 I possess 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-05 performing duties such as: interpretation park ranger functioning as a team lead or tour leader; operations assistant for a visitor center or public facing facility; environmental educator or teacher at the elementary/middle school level or environmental education center; law enforcement work with moderate emphasis on public engagement and interpretation; archeological or historical preservation research work focused presenting interpretation presentations and/or producing written information for the general public; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of interpretive materials related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work.
 I possess 1 full academic year of graduate education in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources or superior academic achievement.
 I do not have the level of experience described in the statements above.
 I meet requirements based on a combination of education and experience.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for Park Ranger (I), GS-0025-09. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet the requirements of this question, you will be rated ineligible.
 I possess 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-07 performing duties such as: interpretation park ranger or tour leader; operations manager for a visitor center or public facing facility; environmental educator or teacher at a high school level or higher and/or experience as operations manager of an environmental learning center; law enforcement work with heavy emphasis on public engagement and interpretation; archeological or historical preservation research work focused on development and presentation of interpretation programs and/or producing written information for the general public; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area with an emphasis on public engagement; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work.
 I possess 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources.
 I do not have the level of experience described in the statements above.
 I meet requirements based on a combination of education and experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙