Position Title
Paralegal Specialist Detail Opportunity (NTE 120 days) (Non-Reimbursable Detail)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
JMD-OES-26-12900205-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


2.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current Federal Employees
Are you a current Department of Justice (DOJ) employee on a permanent appointment and your highest permanent grade is lower than the highest grade of this position or eligible for reinstatement? 
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your service, appointment type, and tenure, and your DOJ organization.
Please do not submit an award SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current DOJ Employees
Are you a current Department of Justice (DOJ) employee on a permanent appointment and have held the same or higher grade of the position being filled or eligible for reinstatement?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your service, appointment type, and tenure, and your DOJ organization.
Please do not submit an award SF-50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12
13


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙