Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
CGA-DE-12895258-26-SD-CY Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
2.
Are you a current federal employee being displaced from a federal position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a federal position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. San Diego, CA
 B. Metropolitan area surrounding, Washington, DC
 C. Jacksonville, FL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Philadelphia, PA
 G. Fort Worth, TX
 H. Houston, TX
 I. Norfolk, VA


3.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please respond to the following item regarding the Basic Requirement for the Contracting Series (1102) in the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement for the Contracting Series (1102).
 I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have successfully completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 On January 1, 2000, I held a position in the Federal government in the Contracting Series (1102), and my position was equivalent to grade GS-05 or higher. I have continually held this occupational series since January 1, 2000. (Must submit SF-50s.)
 I do not have the education or meet the exception described above and do not qualify for this position.



Please respond to the following items regarding Minimum Qualifications for a Contract Specialist, GS-07 and/or GS-09 position. To meet Minimum Qualifications, you must have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) or possess the education described below.



2.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet Minimum Qualifications for the GS-07 grade level.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing at least 3 of the 4 following duties: 1) Assisting in the review of technical or administrative documents to ensure they are complete and accurate; 2) Using regulations, procedural manuals, or policy guidance (e.g., financial, administrative, legal, or program-related) to support program recommendations; 3) Preparing written materials such as reports, summaries, memoranda, correspondence, instructions, or background research to present information clearly and accurately; 4) Reviewing data for accuracy to identify discrepancies, and/or recommending adjustments to improve workflow. (Must be reflected in your resume.)
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate education or law school. My field of study was in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have less than the amount of specialized experience described in "A" and less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B", but I have a combination such that they total 100 percent when combined. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed above; then compute your graduate education as a percentage of the graduate education listed above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate-level education may be combined with specialized experience. (Must be reflected in your resume, and must submit transcripts.)
 I meet the Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) requirements: A bachelor's degree in one or more of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management, or any field that equipped me with the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the work of a Contract Specialist, AND I meet one of the following: (1) Grade point average of "B" (GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; (2) Grade point average of "B+" (GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in my major field of study, or those courses in my major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; (3) Rank in the upper one-third of my class in my college, university, or major subdivision; or (4) Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. (Must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements, and I am not qualified for this position at the GS-07 grade level.


3.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet Minimum Qualifications for the GS-09 grade level.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing at least 3 of the 4 following duties: 1) Analyzing contract materials, technical specifications, or financial statements to support the preparation of acquisition-related documentation; 2) Reviewing contract proposals for pricing, technical capabilities, and/or adherence to specifications to make informed recommendations for award decisions; 3) Preparing reports, summaries, memoranda, correspondence, instructions, or background research memoranda used to support procurement or operational decisions; 4) Responding to inquiries to provide business or administrative recommendations supported by research or analysis. (Must be reflected in your resume.)
 I have successfully completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D.. My field of study was in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have less than the amount of specialized experience described in "A" and less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B", but I have a combination such that they total 100 percent when combined. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed above; then compute your graduate education as a percentage of the graduate education listed above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate-level education in excess of one year (18 semester hours) may be combined with specialized experience. (Must be reflected in your resume, and must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements, and I am not qualified for this position at the GS-09 grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙