Position Title
Electrician Supervisor
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU-26-12937451-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electrician Supervisor with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks including organizing assignments for subordinates where judgment as to individual abilities is involved; recommending selection of employees; evaluating work performance of subordinates and work leaders in both completeness and compliance with Codes; estimating material and manpower needed for specific jobs; preparing production records, work records, and reports; training others in new duties; explaining manuals and work procedures; motivating employees to work efficiently and productively; and determining work procedures. I am able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair complex industrial electrical systems. I am a licensed electrician and responsible for safe and proper operation of systems and equipment, and for compliance with the National Electrical Code. I am skilled in troubleshooting, diagnosing and repairing motor starters and calculating loads for large systems for proper wire and conduit size as well as overcurrent protection and can plan, layout and execute the installation of these components. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks including organizing assignments, recommending selection of employees, evaluating work performance of subordinate for completeness; estimating man-hours needed for specific jobs, prepare work records and reports, training other for routine duties, motivating employees and determining work procedures. I am able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair routine industrial electrical systems. I am a licensed electrician and responsible for safe and proper operation of systems and equipment, and for compliance with the National Electrical Code. I am skilled in troubleshooting, diagnosing and repairing motor starters and calculating loads for large systems. I can plan, layout and execute the installation of new subpanels and branch circuits including proper overcurrent protection and proper wire and conduit sizing. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties including organizing assignments for routine reparis. I can perform replacement of electrical components in an electrical distribution system to include subpanels, motor starts, safety disconnects, lights of various types, switches, dimmers, receptacles of varying voltage and capacity. I am able to replace defective conduit and conductors with like material and properly secure components. I lead team members in the execution of small projects to completion and make certain proper materials are ordered and proper equipment to safely accomplish the work is obtained. I work with customers on site and work with them to make certain any issues are resolved. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks including organizing assignments for routine residential type repairs by replacement. I am capable of common electrical tasks such as light and ballast replacement, switch and receptacle replacement, securing conduit, boxes and enclosures and replacing fuses and breakers with like components. I work with customers on site and work with them to make certain any issues are resolved.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙