Position Title
Education Compliance Survey Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASK-13060923-26-CM Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Buffalo, NY
 E. Muskogee, OK


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Add Short Essay Questionnaire
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Education Compliance Survey Specialist (ECSS) with the Department of Veterans' Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.


1.
Select the ONE response that best describes the level of education or experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Education Compliance Survey Specialist at the GS-09 grade.
GS-9 Specialized Experience- To qualify at the GS-09 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher in federal service or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.. Specialized experience is defined as work which includes the following:
(1) Utilize laws, regulations, orders, rules and policies for administration of benefit programs; (2) Develop solutions after extensive analysis and thorough evaluation of fact-finding data; (3) Assess, evaluate and monitor programs for compliance with laws, etc; (4) Utilize general auditing standards and reports.
OR,
Education substitution: master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service or private sector.
 I have earned a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


2.
Select the ONE response that best describes the level of education or experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Education Liaison Representative at the GS-11 grade.
GS-11 Specialized Experience- To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level or higher in federal service in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as work that includes: (1) Utilize laws, regulations, orders, rules and policies for administration of benefit programs; (2) Develop solutions after extensive analysis and thorough evaluation of fact-finding data; (3) Assess, evaluate and monitor programs for compliance with laws, etc.; (4) Conduct financial and/or record keeping audits utilizing auditing standards; (5) Develop reports based on audits and discrepancies.
OR,
Education: You must have at least a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. One year of full-time graduate education is normally determined by the school you attended. If that number cannot be determined, 18 semester hours should be considered equivalent to one academic year of graduate study. Part-time graduate education is creditable on a pro-rated basis. If you qualify based on your education, you must upload or fax a copy of your college transcript along with your application. If you are selected for the position, an official college transcript(s) will be required at your start date.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service or private sector.
 I have a PhD. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M.
 I have combinations of specialized experience and more than two years, but less than three years of education, as described above which totals at least one year.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙