Position Title
Firefighter (Hazardous Materials Operations)
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12942285-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to Apr 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5
6


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Firefighter (Hazardous Materials Operations) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Firefighter at the GS-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have six months of general experience which includes work experience or military service that demonstrates my ability to follow directions and to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures and that otherwise demonstrates my ability to perform or learn to perform the duties of the position.
 I have successfully completed one-year of education above the high school level related to fire protection and/or prevention or six months of firefighter training. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts or evidence of firefighter training, if applicable.)
 I have the general experience as described in A, but less than six months; and I have some education above the high school level or related training as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 6. Then divide your semester hours of education by 30 and/or month(s) of training by 6. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or evidence of firefighter training.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education and/or training described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or evidence of firefighter training.)
 My experience and/or education/training is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Firefighter (Hazardous Materials Operations) at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience which includes: (1) Fighting fires as a member of an organized fire department or brigade; (2) Performing rescue operations; and (3) Controlling hazardous materials incidents. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-03).
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level in an accredited college or university in Fire Training, Fire Science, or other related fields of study. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of education by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Firefighter (Hazardous Materials Operations) at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Fighting fires as a member of an organized fire department or brigade; (2) Performing rescue operations; (3) Inspecting structure to detect and remedy potential hazards, and (4) Controlling hazardous materials incidents. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-04).
 I have successfully completed four years of education above the high school level in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s degree with major study in Fire Science, Fire Training, or other related fields of study. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of education by 120. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Firefighter (Hazardous Materials Operations) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes (1) Fighting fires as a member of an organized fire department or brigade; (2) Performing rescue operations; (3) Inspecting structure to detect and remedy potential hazards, (4) Controlling hazardous materials incidents, and (5) Conducting training in fire protection and prevention. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-05).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
The GS-04 and GS-05 grade levels require current certification in Firefighter I & II, Hazardous Materials Awareness, Hazardous Materials Operations certified by DoD Fire Emergency Services Certification System, International Fire Service Accreditation Congress (IFSAC) or the Fire Service Professional Qualifications System (Pro-Board). Do you possess the required certificates? (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification for verification.)
 Yes
 No


6.
The GS-06 grade level requires current certification in Firefighter I & II, Hazardous Materials Awareness, Hazardous Materials Operations, Driver Operator Pumper, Driver Operator MWS, and Driver Operator Aerial certified by DoD Fire Emergency Services Certification System, International Fire Service Accreditation Congress (IFSAC) or the Fire Service Professional Qualifications System (Pro-Board). Do you possess the required certificates? (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification for verification.)
 Yes
 No


7.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙