Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12936843-26-MG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).




 Yes
 No


4.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?


 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Basic Requirement - Carefully read the following descriptions and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the 0905 series.
 I have earned a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association AND I am an active member of the Bar.
 I have training equivalent to a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) AND am an active member of the Bar.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


2.
FACTOR: Minimum Qualifications GS-13:

Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for this position.
 I have two years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service.
 I have one year of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service and possess a second law degree (LL.M.) which can substitute for one year of experience.
 I have no legal experience but possess both a second (LL.M.) and third (J.S.D.) professional law degree which may be substituted for one year of experience each.
 I do not have education or experience as described above.


3.
FACTOR: Minimum Qualifications GS-14:

Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for this position.
 I have three years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service.
 I have two years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service and possess a second law degree (LL.M.) which can substitute for one year of experience.
 I have one year of professional legal experience and possess both a second (LL.M.) and third (J.S.D.) professional law degree which may be substituted for one year of experience each.
 I do not have education or experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙