Position Title
Assistant Hospital Housekeeping Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-13019957-26-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


2.

SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility and/or Time-in-Grade): 

You MUST attach your most recent, non-award SF-50. This SF-50 should not be more than a year old and must show your current position, grade and step. Award SF-50's typically do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted if they do not include Grade and Step.  

In order to clearly demonstrate you possess the time-in-grade as required by the announcement, ADDITIONAL SF-50s should be attached which clearly demonstrate the minimum time-in-grade requirement. 

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: 

Within grade increases at the highest grade held 

Promotions with an effective date more than one year old 

SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.

**Please note that having steps DOES NOT PROVE TIME IN GRADE. When in doubt, upload your most recent SF-50, as well as a second one that is OVER 1 YEAR OLD.**

By clicking YES, I am certifying that I have uploaded the correct SF-50s OR that I need to speak to HR before the announcement closes if there is any misunderstanding regarding the language or directions in this announcement. Please refer any questions to the HR Specialist listed on the bottom of the announcement. If the proper SF-50s are not submitted, I understand that I CANNOT be considered for this position. It is my responsibility to fully read the job announcement and provide the required documents. 

NO EXCEPTIONS WILL BE MADE AFTER THE CLOSING.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Assistant Hospital Housekeeping Officer position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents as we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): The 0673 series requires specific education or experience to be met in order to be appointed into a position of this series. You must meet one of the pre-determined Education or Experience Individual Occupational Requirements listed below as set by Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
Education
Undergraduate Education: Major study - chemistry or biological sciences, sanitary science or administration, institutional sanitation or administration, hospital administration, hotel administration, public administration, business administration, or other fields related to the position.
Graduate Education: Major study - public health or business administration with emphasis in hospital administration.
OR
Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience in two or more of the following areas, or other work related to the position to be filled:
- Experience that demonstrated a practical working knowledge of the basic principles of chemistry, biology, and bacteriology as applied to environmental sanitation, infection control, and to the choice and use of antimicrobial agents in the disinfection, sanitization, and/or sterilization of surfaces and equipment.
- Experience in laundry and linen management.
- Experience in interior design management.
- Experience that demonstrated a knowledge of waste management, including the requirements relating to hazardous, toxic, and infectious wastes and provisions for their final disposition.
- Experience that demonstrated a knowledge of pest management, including alternative methods of control and the selection and application of chemicals.
 Yes, I possess the experience and/or education listed above. (Note: Applicant's experience must be documented in detail on resume to receive full credit. If you use education as any part of your qualification, you must attach a transcript.)
 No, I do not possess the basic requirement of the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this position as stated above (SCREEN-OUT).


Minimum Qualifications: In addition to the IOR above, applicants must also meet the minimum qualifications below for this position. Please select the statement below that describes your experience to meet the specific qualification requirements at this grade level.


2.
In addition to meeting both the Individual Occupational Requirements listed above, and Time-In-grade, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates. To qualify at the GS-11 level, applicants must meet one of the following:

- GS-11 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-9 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience include: experience that demonstrates a practical working knowledge of the basic principles of chemistry, biology, and bacteriology as applied to environmental sanitation, infection control, and to the choice and use of antimicrobial agents in the disinfection, sanitization, and/or sterilization of surfaces and equipment; experience in laundry and linen management; experience in interior design management; experience that demonstrates a knowledge of waste management, including the requirements relating to hazardous, toxic, and infectious wastes and provisions for their final disposition; experience that demonstrates a knowledge of pest management, including alternative methods of control and the selection and application of chemicals. OR,
- Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. OR,
- Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education at or above graduate level (with a major in public health or business administration with emphasis in hospital administration above). Graduate Education: Education at the graduate level in an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at GS-7 through GS-11. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.

Do you meet one of the requirements above?
 Yes, I have met one of the requirements above and it has been clearly demonstrated in my resume and other application documents. (Example: If you are basing any of your qualifications on education, transcripts MUST be attached)
 No, I do not meet any of the requirements above and I understand that I cannot be considered for this position. (SCREEN-OUT).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙