Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Institutional) (Recreation Supervisor)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
SCR-26-13039342 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position.

A. Education:

Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education.

NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable).

OR

B. Experience:

Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels.
Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management.
Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.
Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?
 Yes
 No


2.
In addition to the minimum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.
As Recreation Supervisor, you're facing a significant crisis. Three rival gang members were seriously injured during what was supposed to be a supervised basketball tournament yesterday evening, and tension throughout the complex is extremely high. The Warden has called an emergency executive staff meeting in one hour where you must brief all department heads on what occurred, your department's response, and your plan moving forward. Additionally, the union representative has filed a formal complaint alleging that your staff was inadequately trained for managing large-group sporting events, and local media has begun inquiring about the incident. You also need to address the general inmate population's concerns, as many are angry that all recreational activities have been temporarily suspended, and you're receiving reports of hostile confrontations between your staff and inmates demanding answers.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?
 Prepare a comprehensive briefing for the executive staff meeting that includes a factual timeline of events, immediate safety measures implemented, preliminary findings from your review of the incident, and both short-term containment strategies and long-term preventative recommendations for policy modifications. Schedule a formal meeting with union officials to discuss their concerns about staff training, present documentation of current training protocols, and work collaboratively to identify any legitimate gaps and develop solutions to resolve the critical issues. Personally counsel the hostile inmates who are confronting your staff, using de-escalation techniques to address their anger while firmly explaining the safety rationale for the suspension, and coordinate with Psychology Services to arrange group counseling sessions to process the traumatic event with affected inmates and staff.
 Under the time constraints before the executive meeting, coordinate with Security and Health Services to compile all relevant information about the incident and prepare talking points that address interdepartmental responsibilities. Present a persuasive case to the executive staff for resuming modified recreational programming with enhanced supervision protocols. Meet with your Recreation Specialists to discuss how to manage uncooperative and angry inmates when they're encountered during the suspension period, providing guidance on appropriate responses and when to request security assistance. Facilitate communication between your department, the union representative, and Human Resources to address the training complaint, providing documentation of staff certifications and requesting that all parties work together to resolve the concerns. Conduct inmate orientation sessions explaining the temporary policy changes and timeline for activity resumption.
 Attend the executive staff meeting and participate in discussions about the incident, providing information about your department's normal procedures and how the tournament was scheduled. Speak with your Recreation Specialists during your regular departmental meeting about the importance of remaining professional when interacting with frustrated inmates during the suspension period. Contact the union representative to schedule a time to discuss their training concerns and gather information about what specific issues they've identified. Coordinate with other departments to ensure consistent messaging is being provided to inmates about when recreational activities might resume. Successfully manage the logistical challenges of rescheduling all affected recreational programming once the suspension is lifted.
 Participate in the executive staff meeting to answer any questions about your department's role in managing recreational activities and tournaments. Hold a team meeting with your Recreation Specialists to review proper procedures for handling difficult situations and assign modified duties during the activity suspension. Reach out to the union representative to understand their perspective on the training complaint and gather their suggestions for improvement. Prepare to meet with inmate representatives once the situation stabilizes to exchange information about how recreational programming will be restructured. Document all communications and decisions made during this period for future reference.
 None of the above.


2.
As Recreation Supervisor, you face multiple urgent writing demands. The Regional Office has requested a comprehensive response within 10 days to findings from their recent audit that identified deficiencies in your recreation program's compliance with national policy regarding accommodations for inmates with disabilities. Your response must include technical analysis of current practices, proposed corrective actions, and justification for any resource needs. Simultaneously, the Warden has asked you to serve on an institution-wide workgroup tasked with drafting a new local policy on inmate incentive programs, which will be reviewed by the Regional Office and potentially used as a model for other institutions. Additionally, a local university professor conducting research on correctional recreation programs has requested detailed written information about your facility's programming outcomes, and this could result in publication that reflects on the Bureau. You also need to respond to an inquiry from the institution's Legal Department regarding a specific recreational incident that occurred six months ago.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?
 Serve as an active member of the institution workgroup and contribute substantively to the development of the new incentive program policy by drafting sections that address recreational programming components, ensuring the document meets national policy framework requirements and includes clear implementation guidance for staff at other institutions. Prepare a technical and complex written response to the Regional Office audit that analyzes each finding using regulatory standards, provides detailed corrective action plans with timelines and accountability measures, addresses systemic versus isolated issues, and includes budget justification for any additional resources required for full compliance. Write a comprehensive response to the university professor that includes statistical data on program participation and outcomes, describes evidence-based practices used in your facility, and presents information in a manner suitable for potential publication in a professional journal. Draft a detailed response to Legal Department that includes factual timeline, relevant policy citations, and staff actions taken.
 Participate actively in the workgroup meetings for the incentive program policy development and prepare written documentation that describes how recreation programming can support the incentive structure, including specific examples and recommendations from your operational experience. Prepare a thorough written response to the Regional Office audit findings that addresses each deficiency, explains your department's current procedures, outlines the corrective actions you will implement, and provides a timeline for compliance. Respond professionally to the university professor's inquiry by preparing written documentation that describes your facility's recreation programs, provides available statistical information, and explains the operational context of your programming. Review your department's records and prepare written responses to the Legal Department's specific questions about the incident, including relevant documentation from performance logs and incident reports.
 Assist the workgroup with the incentive program policy by preparing internal memorandums that outline recreation department perspectives and contribute written suggestions during the drafting process. Prepare a written response to the audit findings that addresses the identified deficiencies and documents your planned corrective actions in a format suitable for submission to the Regional Office. Assist the university professor by preparing written materials that describe your recreation programs and provide available participation data. Write a memorandum for Legal Department that summarizes the recreational incident based on available records and your recollection of how it was handled.
 Attend the workgroup meetings and take notes on the policy development discussions, offering to review draft sections for clarity and accuracy. Research similar audit responses from colleagues at other institutions to understand the expected format and content for your response to the Regional Office. Compile existing program descriptions and statistical reports to send to the university professor. Search through your files to locate any documentation related to the incident referenced by Legal Department and prepare a summary of what occurred.
 None of the above.


3.
You are the Recreation Supervisor at a Federal Correctional Complex with 2,500 inmates. Mid-year budget reviews reveal that your recreation department has experienced a 15% reduction in operational funding due to agency-wide budget constraints. Simultaneously, you've identified critical safety concerns with aging fitness equipment that requires immediate replacement, and you've received a directive from the Warden to expand wellness programming to address increasing mental health needs among the inmate population. Your current staff is already operating at capacity, and you have three major recreational tournaments scheduled for the next quarter that require additional resources.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate resource management approach in this situation?
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of all current expenditures and program costs, identify areas of waste or redundancy, and develop a detailed justification report for the Warden that proposes reallocating funds from underutilized programs to address the equipment safety issues. Submit a separate proposal to senior management requesting emergency funding for the wellness expansion, including data on mental health trends, projected participation rates, and long-term cost savings from preventative programming. Implement an innovative space allocation plan that allows existing tournaments to proceed using modified scheduling that maximizes facility usage during non-peak hours, and develop a multi-year strategic plan with phased implementation goals for all programming needs.
 Review your current budget reports and reconcile all expenditures to identify any remaining discretionary funds. Compare prices from multiple vendors for the fitness equipment replacement to find the most cost-effective option while maintaining quality standards. Prepare a recommendation to the Warden outlining the additional funding or temporary staff positions needed to support both the wellness expansion and upcoming tournaments. Maintain your current recreation program schedule by having your existing staff work overtime during the tournament period, and adjust priorities as needed to ensure critical deadlines are met while keeping the wellness initiative on track for implementation.
 Track all current expenditures carefully to ensure you maintain positive balances in each budget category. Contact your regular vendors to discuss payment terms for the equipment replacement and explore whether delivery can be scheduled to spread costs across quarters. Ensure that all existing fitness equipment is serviced and maintained according to schedule to extend its usable life. Coordinate with facility management to confirm that all recreation areas remain available for the scheduled tournaments. Initiate a revised activity schedule that incorporates the new wellness programming during currently available time slots, and prioritize your daily tasks to address the most urgent needs first while meeting established internal deadlines.
 Meet with your Recreation Specialists to divide current responsibilities more efficiently and ensure all existing programs continue operating smoothly. Review the tournament schedules and confirm all logistics are in place for successful execution. Document the equipment safety concerns and forward the information to your supervisor with a request for guidance on replacement timelines. Volunteer to take on additional administrative duties personally to free up your staff to focus on direct program delivery during this challenging period, and begin preliminary research on wellness programming models used at other facilities that could be adapted to your complex.
 None of the above.


4.
Your Federal Correctional Complex serves 3,000 inmates with diverse fitness levels, ages ranging from 18 to 75, and varying medical conditions including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and orthopedic limitations. The Chief Medical Officer has requested that Recreation develop a comprehensive wellness initiative that addresses chronic disease management through evidence-based exercise programming. You have a staff of five Recreation Specialists with varying levels of fitness expertise, and you need to establish programming that serves both general population inmates and those with special medical needs. The Warden has also mandated that your department provide professional development opportunities to enhance staff competency in exercise science and program delivery.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate application of sports/fitness program knowledge in this situation?
 Design and personally provide formal professional training classes to your Recreation Specialist staff and other mid-level institutional managers on current exercise physiology principles, chronic disease management through physical activity, and proper program modifications for special populations. Work directly with the Chief Medical Officer and medical directing staff to develop evidence-based exercise protocols and establish a scheduling system that accommodates both general fitness programming and medically-supervised exercise classes. Review and approve all large-group exercise and fitness-based programming to ensure physiological safety and program effectiveness. Develop a tiered fitness instructor training program for your staff that includes both theoretical knowledge of long-term adaptations to exercise and practical instruction skills, and create a certification process that qualifies trained Recreation Specialists to provide instruction and training to inmate fitness trainers who can assist with peer-led programming.
 Develop, direct, and implement a full-scale recreation program that includes separate tracks for different fitness levels and medical needs. Successfully implement and personally supervise a diverse range of physical fitness classes including aerobics, calisthenics, yoga, and modified exercise programs for inmates with chronic conditions. Effectively direct and manage an intramural sports league program with complex scheduling that accommodates the large inmate population through drafting systems and coordinated tournament structures. Utilize your personal credentials as an accredited personal trainer to design individualized programming recommendations for inmates with special medical needs. Successfully manage all aspects of the fitness facility operations including equipment maintenance, scheduling, safety protocols, and coordination with medical staff for clearance procedures.
 Enhance and update your institution's established recreation program by working with your most experienced Recreation Specialist to assist with the design of group fitness classes that can accommodate inmates with different medical conditions. Successfully implement program adaptations based on current fitness literature and medical staff input that result in improved health and fitness curriculum offerings. Propose to the Warden a series of fitness-based program modifications and new sports league rules that address safety concerns for older inmates and those with chronic conditions. Work with medical staff to establish guidelines and requirements for inmate participation in various intensity levels of programming, and make modifications to existing league structures that enhance participation rates and health outcomes.
 Review your current recreation and fitness programming to identify areas where medical accommodations could be incorporated. Research best practices from other correctional institutions and community fitness programs that serve special populations. Consult with the Chief Medical Officer to understand the specific exercise considerations for inmates with various chronic conditions. Assign your Recreation Specialists to develop proposals for modified programming options. Attend professional development training yourself on exercise science and chronic disease management so you can better guide your staff in program development and implementation.
 None of the above.


5.
Your Federal Correctional Complex is experiencing a significant increase in inmate mental health crises and violent incidents, with data showing a 40% rise over the past 18 months. The institution's executive staff has formed a multidisciplinary committee to address this trend, and you've been appointed to represent Recreation. The Warden has specifically requested that each department analyze relevant data and make evidence-based recommendations for policy modifications that could help reduce institutional tension. You have access to three years of recreation participation data from your facility's SENTRY database, incident reports correlating timing and location of violent events, annual program statistics, research literature on recreation's role in correctional behavior management, and comparative data from five similar Federal Correctional Complexes that have lower incident rates.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate analytical approach in this situation?
 Conduct a comprehensive research project that involves extracting and analyzing SENTRY database recreation participation data cross-referenced with incident reports to identify correlations between recreation engagement levels and behavioral outcomes. Utilize the three-year trend data and comparative statistics from similar facilities to identify evidence-based best practices and program gaps at your institution. Serve as an analytical reviewer on the multidisciplinary committee by examining other departments' data and recommendations to identify opportunities for integrated programming approaches. Develop and present detailed suggestions for formulation of new institutional policies regarding mandatory recreation participation for high-risk populations, modification of existing recreation scheduling to provide increased access during peak tension periods, and establishment of specific program objectives that target stress reduction and conflict resolution. Collect comprehensive information from incident reports, medical staff, and security data to make specific recommendations for how recreation programming modifications could increase institutional security. Prepare proposals for development of new data tracking procedures that will allow ongoing analysis of program effectiveness in reducing behavioral incidents, including specific metrics and reporting structures for measuring outcomes.
 Generate comprehensive computer database reports from SENTRY that analyze your institution's recreation participation statistics broken down by housing unit, security level, and demographic factors. Review key operational indicators and compare your facility's recreation programming structure, participation rates, and scheduling approach with the five similar facilities that have better outcomes, identifying specific differences that may contribute to their success. Review your recreation curriculum annually to ensure compliance with national standards and identify areas where programming could be enhanced to address inmate mental health and behavioral needs. Present your findings to the multidisciplinary committee with specific recommendations for program modifications that could support the institution's goals for reducing tension and violent incidents.
 Utilize your existing monitoring systems to analyze recreation participation information and identify any notable trends or patterns over the 18-month period of increased incidents. Assist the multidisciplinary committee with preparing the committee's annual report section on recreation by analyzing specific participation data and contributing information about current program offerings. Serve as the recreation department's reviewer during the committee's operational review process, providing input on how proposed institution-wide policy changes might impact recreational programming. Compile your analysis into a written report for the Warden that includes observations about participation trends and suggestions for how recreation might contribute to the institution's violence reduction goals.
 Review the recreation participation data available in SENTRY and prepare summary reports showing program attendance trends over the relevant time period. Examine the incident reports to see if any patterns emerge related to recreation schedules or facility usage. Attend the multidisciplinary committee meetings and contribute recreation department perspectives to the discussions. Research evidence-based practices in correctional recreation that address behavioral management and share relevant findings with the committee. Prepare recommendations for the Warden about potential recreation program adjustments that could support the institution's objectives.
 None of the above.


6.
You supervise five Recreation Specialists at your institution. Two months ago, you assigned Recreation Specialist Johnson to lead the intramural sports program expansion, but participation has declined by 30% and you've received multiple complaints from both inmates and staff about scheduling conflicts and poor communication. Recreation Specialist Martinez has consistently exceeded performance expectations and has expressed interest in promotion to a GS-11 position, but lacks confidence in leading institutional initiatives. Recreation Specialist Chen has been arriving late three times per week for the past month and has become defensive when colleagues offer feedback, though Chen's program work remains adequate when present. Your unit also needs to respond to an urgent directive from the Regional Office requiring implementation of a new recreation data tracking system within 45 days, which will require coordination with IT, Health Services, and Unit Management.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?
 Conduct a formal performance counseling session with Recreation Specialist Johnson that addresses specific weaknesses in planning and communication that led to the program's decline, while also acknowledging Johnson's strengths in creativity and inmate rapport. Based on this assessment, adjust Johnson's duties by reassigning leadership of the sports expansion to a team approach and providing Johnson with structured mentoring in project management. Schedule a comprehensive career development counseling session with Martinez to discuss educational opportunities, promotion requirements, and specific developmental experiences needed for advancement. Delegate authority to Martinez to lead the multi-departmental taskforce for implementing the new data tracking system, providing regular guidance while allowing Martinez to coordinate directly with other departments and build leadership competency. Prior to initiating any performance-based disciplinary action with Chen, conduct a private counseling session to understand underlying causes of the attendance issues, clearly communicate performance expectations, document the discussion, and establish a improvement timeline. Complete thorough performance evaluations for all five subordinates that address individual strengths and weaknesses to guide their professional development.
 Lead a team meeting with all Recreation Specialists to improve the intramural sports program operations, soliciting input on how to address the declining participation and scheduling conflicts. Assist Martinez by providing detailed information about the GS-11 qualification requirements, recommending specific training courses, and counseling Martinez on strategies for building leadership skills and confidence. Develop and facilitate an internal training session on the new recreation data tracking system that prepares your entire staff for the implementation and promotes their professional growth in data management competencies. Address Chen's attendance pattern by documenting the instances and discussing your concerns about reliability, while working with Chen to identify solutions. Recognize strong performance across your team by submitting recommendations for time-off awards for those who have taken on additional responsibilities during this challenging period.
 Participate as a member of the implementation team for the new data tracking system, working alongside your Recreation Specialists to ensure successful deployment within the 45-day timeline. Seek input from your staff during team meetings about how to improve the intramural sports program and implement changes based on their collective recommendations. When Martinez approaches you about promotion possibilities, share your own career experience and provide advice on educational programs and certification options that enhanced your qualifications. Assist in developing and presenting a training session with your more experienced staff members that addresses the new data system and contributes to the professional growth of the entire team. Speak with Chen informally about the importance of punctuality and offer support if there are personal issues affecting attendance.
 Meet individually with Johnson to discuss the declining sports program participation and provide specific guidance on corrective actions needed. Recognize Martinez's strong performance through positive feedback and encourage Martinez to pursue leadership opportunities. Create a project plan for the data tracking system implementation and assign specific roles to each Recreation Specialist based on their individual strengths. Document Chen's late arrivals and schedule a meeting to discuss the attendance expectations and potential consequences if the pattern continues. Coordinate schedules to ensure adequate coverage of all recreation programs during the transition to the new tracking system.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙