Position Title
Training Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-13037188-26-GG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
GS-7 Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing of this announcement. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, or eligible for a non-competitive appointment like VRA, or Schedule A this question does not apply to you. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-GS-05 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-07 grade level. Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or I am currently a GS- 07 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me, I am Wage Grade employee or eligible for a non-competitive appointment like VRA or schedule A.
 This restriction applies to me, I do not meet the requirements.


2.
GS-9 Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing of this announcement. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, or eligible for a non-competitive appointment like VRA, or Schedule A this question does not apply to you. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-GS-07 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-09 grade level. Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or I am currently a GS- 09 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me, I am Wage Grade employee or eligible for a non-competitive appointment like VRA or schedule A.
 This restriction applies to me, I do not meet the requirements.


3.
Individual Occupational Requirement - The 1712 Training Instruction series requires specific education or experience to be met in order to be appointed into a position of this series. All applicants must meet one of the Individual Occupational Requirements listed below in addition to the grade specific requirements. Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have a bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. (Transcripts required).
 I have at least one (1) year of Specialized Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Your experience must demonstrate a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: (1) Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s); (2) Supervising or administering a training program; (3) Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results; and (4) Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.
 I do not meet the minimum requirement for this occupation.


In addition to meeting the above Individual Occupational Requirement, applicants must also meet specialized experience and/or education requirements.Please select the response below that best fits your experience and/or education that qualifies you for the position.


4.
Minimum Qualifications GS-7- Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-07 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select).
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Maintains administrative training program and identifies areas that are non-compliant. Analyzing national performance standards and reports findings to management. Coordinating application access and training. Developing policies and procedures. Utilizing Microsoft Excel, data visualization tools, or business intelligence platforms for operational analysis. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment their resume.
 I have completed one full year of graduate level education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and education, directly related to the work of the position, beyond a bachelor's degree. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I meet the minimum qualifications based on Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) with my bachelor's degree with one of the following: class standing, grade point average and/or membership in a national honor society. I understand I must submit documentation to support SAA. NOTE: Copies of transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have none of the above.


5.
Minimum Qualifications GS-9- Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-09 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select).
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Develops and maintains administrative training programs, identifying, reporting, and creating strategies for improvement for areas that are non-compliant. Analyzing national performance standards on a weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis and reports weekly to management the results, findings and action plans for services not meeting performance measures. Coordinating application access and training ensuring staff are in compliance with mandatory training requirements. Developing policies and procedures. Utilizing Microsoft Excel, data visualization tools, or business intelligence platforms for operational analysis. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment their resume.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B. or J.D. in a related field that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I have none of the above.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙