Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-26-12924829-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


SHORT ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of experience. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. **READ EACH STATEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE MAKING YOUR SELECTION:
 If Applying for the GS-07: 1) One year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service demonstrating Knowledge of United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), American Institute of Public Accountants (AICPA), NIST, and DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) principles, concepts, practices and trends for accounting, auditing, and risk management; Knowledge of financial system and control related public law and guidance such as the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA), Federal Financial Management Improvement Act (FFMIA), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Act, and Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA); Demonstrated ability to communicate both orally and in writing, clearly, concisely, and with technical accuracy.; **OR, 2) 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement; **OR, 3) some specialized experience as described above, but less than one year; and you have more than one year but less than two years of education as described in above. You have computed the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 If Applying for the GS-09: 1) One year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service demonstrating Knowledge of United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), American Institute of Public Accountants (AICPA), NIST, and DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) principles, concepts, practices and trends for accounting, auditing, and risk management; Knowledge of financial system and control related public law and guidance such as the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA), Federal Financial Management Improvement Act (FFMIA), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Act, and Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA); Demonstrated knowledge of missions, roles, functions, organizational structures, and operations of organizations that govern, interface, with and/or influence financial operations and reporting; Demonstrated ability to communicate both orally and in writing, clearly, concisely, and with technical accuracy.; **OR, 2) a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related; **OR, 3) some specialized experience as described above, but less than one year; and you have more than one year but less than two years of education as described in above. You have computed the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 If applying for the GS-11: 1) One year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service Supporting financial statement audit and/or audit remediation through continuous improvement of processes, internal controls, accounting, reporting, and/or governance to improve the accuracy, accountability, transparency, and integrity of finance operations; Experience with financial processes and systems sufficient to independently accomplish a variety of assignments related to audit remediation matters for the enterprise; Demonstrated knowledge sufficient to analyze and evaluate techniques and methods to interpret broad and complex policies and procedures to solve a variety of financial and system problems; Skilled knowledge of automated data systems, procedures, and controls applying to financial and operational programs; **OR, 2) Possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related; **OR 3) some specialized experience as described, but less than one year; and you have more than one year but less than two years of education as described. You have computed the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 If applying for the GS-12: One year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent Supporting financial statement audit and/or audit remediation through evaluation of controls developed in support of remediation solutions; Experience with financial accounting systems and enterprise resource management practices; Experience with financial statement audit findings, corrective actions, and remediation reporting to include documenting test results in accordance with policy to ensure accurate and complete support for recommended solutions and actions taken; Performing limited audit testing to assess financial and process controls related to remediation are functioning properly.
 I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙