Position Title
VICTIM ADVOCATE (SAPR)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12855326 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirements for the Social Science Series, 0101?
 I have successfully completed a degree in behavioral or social science; or in a related disciplines appropriate to the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Which of the following best describes your specialized experience requirements for the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position?
 I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience providing support to adult victims of sexual assault and/or sexual harassment.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related discipline (e.g. behavioral or social science) appropriate to the position.
 I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in a related discipline (e.g. behavioral or social science) appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above that equates to 3 years of experience. My percentage of the required education plus my percentage of the required experience equal 100%.
 I do not have any of the above education/experience.


3.
Within which sector or agency do you have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services?
 I have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services within a combination of two or more of the above sectors/agencies
 I have experience providing the above within the Department of Navy (DoN).
 I have experience providing the above within the Department of Defense (DOD), but outside DoN.
 I have experience providing the above within the public sector, but outside DOD.
 I have experience providing the above within the private sector
 I do not have experience with the above.


4.
How many years' experience do you have working with sexual assault victims in crisis situations, performing duties such as conducting risk assessments to determine their immediate needs, and evaluating safety concerns and levels of risk?
 I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
How many years' experience do you have providing a wide range of essential support services for victims of sexual harassment and/or sexual assault, such as advocacy services; liaison services; community resources; and post primary care activities?
 I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


6.
How many years' experience do you have developing and delivering presentations and training?
 I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙