Position Title
Student Volunteer (Unpaid Position)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
SV-26-OIG-FO-13020448 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you currently a student enrolled in an accredited educational institution from high school to graduate level on either a full-time or part-time basis, college (including 4-year college/university, community college, or junior college); professional, technical, vocational, and trade school; advanced degree program, or other qualifying educational institution (including registered apprenticeship programs and certain volunteer service programs) pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate on a full or half-time basis as defined by the educational institution and if applicable, have a grade point average of at least 2.0 on a 4.0 scale?

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of active enrollment with your application.

For more information, click here to review USAJOBS resources for Students and Recent Graduates.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. New York, NY


2.
I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. In the event that my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will amend my responses to more accurately reflect the level of competency demonstrated in my resume.
 Yes
 No


3.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, most recent performance appraisal dated within 18 months (or a reason explaining why one cannot be provided) may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Where did you first learn about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity?
Other College or University Sponsored Career Fair
Alumni Association
DOL Employee (former or current)
Indeed
LinkedIn
Peace Corps
DOL Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) Outreach
Disability Organization
Military Spouse Program/Network
Veterans Organization
Friend/Relative
USAJOBS
Other


5.
Please provide the name of the institution/college/university or organization/program/network where you first heard about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity. If you learned about this DOL job opportunity through a DOL Sponsored Career Fair, please provide the name of the career fair. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


Core Questions
1.
Does the Department of Labor employ any member of your family?
 Yes
 No


2.
If yes to previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed, and location if known. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


Assessment 1
1.

In order for you to be eligible for this opportunity, you must be currently enrolled in good standing at least part time in accordance with your institution's definition of part time and your institution must be accredited and recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Please confirm that your status meets this criteria.
 Yes, I confirm that I am enrolled at least part time and in good standing with an institution that is accredited and recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 No, I do not meet this criteria.


2.
Please spell out the proper name (no acronyms) of the institution that you are currently enrolled (Example: California State University (Fullerton), Florida Memorial University, etc.)


3.
Applicants must be at least 16 years old, have completed high school or have an equivalent General Education Development certificate, and are actively enrolled or accepted for enrollment on at least a half-time basis at a qualifying post-secondary educational institution (e.g.,  trade school, technical or vocational institute, junior college, college, university, or other accredited educational institution).
 Yes, I confirm that I meet the criteria listed above.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


4.
I understand submission of supporting documents (ex: work permits, transcripts, proof of enrollment) may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be consider if the required documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙