Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12976316 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have semi-journeyman level work experience in any of the following trades: Plumbing, heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC), Electrical, Carpentry, Painting? (Check all that apply. Must be documented on your resume to get credit)
 Plumbing
 Heating
 Ventilation
 Air Conditioning (HVAC)
 Electrical
 Carpentry
 Painting
 No semi-journeyman level work experience


3.
How many years' experience do you have that demonstrates knowledge in the applicable combination of general trades involved in maintenance work sufficient to perform the duties of this position? (must be documented on your resume to get credit.)
 1 to 2 years
 2 years plus
 no experience


4.
Do you have knowledge of/experience with safety procedures of tools, mechanical and electrical equipment, commonly used chemicals and basic safe work practices?
 2 years plus
 1 to 2 years
 no experience


5.
Do you have experience/skills in the safe use of a variety of basic hand tools, portable power tools and use of construction equipment? (must be listed on resume)
 2 years plus
 1 to 2 years
 no expereince


6.
Experience working with heavy equipment, including but not limited to, a forklift with min rating of 6,000 pounds, stake truck with air breaks, 1 ton pickup truck with snow plow, and/or skid steer? (must be listed on resume)
 2 years plus
 1 to 2 years
 no experience


7.
Experience in basic maintenance and minor preventative vehicle maintenance, such as checking fluids, lights, battery, brakes, etc in the proper operation of a vehicle.
 2 years experience
 1 to 2 years
 no experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙