Position Title
Supv It Specialist (Plcypln)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IO-26-CO-12935984 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Anaheim, CA
 B. Long Beach, CA
 C. Los Angeles, CA
 D. Aurora, CO
 E. Denver, CO
 F. Washington, DC
 G. Orlando, FL
 H. Saint Petersburg, FL
 I. Tampa, FL
 J. Atlanta, GA
 K. Hines, IL
 L. Detroit, MI
 M. Eatontown, NJ
 N. Albany, NY
 O. Cleveland, OH
 P. Philadelphia, PA
 Q. Pittsburgh, PA
 R. Davidson, TN
 S. Murfreesboro, TN
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Arlington, TX
 V. Austin, TX
 W. Houston, TX
 X. San Antonio, TX
 Y. Salt Lake City, UT
 Z. Shepherdstown, WV



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Basic Requirement - Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): This section includes questions about the basic requirements for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for an Supervisory IT Specialist (PLCYPLN), GS-2210-13. 

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?
 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory IT Specialist, at the GS-12 grade level. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level of GS-12 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: Extensive experience is directly related to this position and has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully supervise and deliver enterprise Linux/Unix platform operations and security outcomes that enable VA mission services, including VHA clinical and public health, supporting systems. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level performing or leading work such as: supervising or serving as a technical lead for a workforce providing 24x7 production support; administering and sustaining enterprise server operating systems (e.g., Red Hat Enterprise Linux and/or Oracle Solaris, including virtualization/partitioning such as LDOMs/Zones) across Development, Pre-Production, Production, and Disaster Recovery environments; executing IT service management processes (incident/problem/change/release) using ServiceNow or equivalent; directing vulnerability, patch, and configuration-baseline compliance using enterprise tools and repeatable processes (e.g., ACAS/SCAP and patch/automation platforms such as BigFix and/or Ansible/Satellite/Puppet-equivalent), including remediation tracking, exceptions, and audit-ready evidence; implementing and overseeing information security controls aligned to VA 6500 and NIST-based requirements; managing reliability, performance, capacity, and continuity/DR readiness (including RTO/RPO support and recovery testing); providing technical advice and assistance to customers and stakeholders to translate mission requirements into implementable infrastructure plans; leading modernization initiatives (e.g., OS uplift, automation improvements, legacy reduction, and hybrid-cloud transitions) with risk management and measurable outcomes; and coordinating across cybersecurity, operations centers, network/storage teams, and vendors/contractors to deliver secure, resilient, and compliant platform services.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


Assessment 2
This test evaluates situational judgment and job knowledge. Each question includes potential responses and reflects foundational experience with leadership-level engagement, large organizational support, financial oversight, and potential for advancement.

INSTRUCTIONS: Read each question carefully and choose the most appropriate response based on the scenario described in each question. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Instructions for Candidates
Read each question carefully.
Situational Judgment (Q1-Q10): Multiple-select. Choose all actions you take. Scoring is weighted: Best response (7 pts) + Acceptable response(s) (3 pts) = 10 pts max per item. You won't be penalized for selecting extra options-but selecting poor choices can disqualify the best score for that item.
Technical Knowledge (Q11-Q20): Single best answer. 5 pts each.
Use accepted federal IT practices, enterprise architecture and cybersecurity standards, supervisory norms, and program/portfolio management logic.
Do not discuss test content.


Instructions to Candidates
Situational Judgment (Q1-Q10): Select all actions you would take. Scoring: Best = 7 pts; Acceptable = 3 pts; Max 10 per item.
Technical Knowledge (Q11-Q20): Choose the single best answer. 5 pts each.
Apply VA policy, acquisition practices, RMF principles, and enterprise program management standards reflected in PD 172710.


1.
High Network Latency During Telehealth.
 A. Do nothing and let sites handle it.
 B. Start an enterprise incident call and apply QoS changes to improve performance.
 C. Wait for the carrier to respond.
 D. Notify stakeholders and pause related changes until stability returns.


2.
Setting Availability Targets.
 A. Use the same SLA for all services.
 B. Define different availability levels and include disaster recovery plans.
 C. Let each site decide.
 D. Test failover plans before publishing.


3.
Circuit Acceptance Failure
 A. Close the order and fix later.
 B. Follow contract steps, run acceptance tests, and escalate if needed.
 C. Replace the vendor immediately.
 D. Use temporary reroutes and update records.


4.
Billing Error Found.
 A. Ignore until the next audit.
 B. Match inventory to billing and correct errors.
 C. Charge sites for the difference.
 D. Document fixes and update process guides.


5.
Writing a Decision Memo.
 A. Share raw technical details only.
 B. Include options, costs, risks, and recommendations clearly.
 C. Use vendor slides.
 D. Add performance data and stakeholder feedback.


6.
Architecture Rules Publication.
 A. Send informal emails.
 B. Publish official rules with clear guidance.
 C. Let sites create their own rules.
 D. Review with stakeholders and track exceptions.


7.
RMF Inputs Before Deployment.
 A. Wait until after deployment.
 B. Provide security plans and configuration details early.
 C. Leave it to the security officer only.
 D. Review security design and document decisions.


8.
Encryption Policy Issue.
 A. Accept the risk and move on.
 B. Fix the issue quickly and confirm compliance.
 C. Treat it as a local problem only.
 D. Record the risk and plan an audit.


9.
Automating Network Changes.
 A. Let each region create its own scripts.
 B. Use a standard automation process with safety checks.
 C. Avoid automation completely.
 D. Test automation in a few regions first.


10.
Handling Interagency Disagreement.
 A. Avoid the issue.
 B. Lead a meeting to find solutions and agree on next steps.
 C. Let the vendor decide.
 D. Prepare talking points and options for leadership.


11.
Best way to set system availability?
 Same SLA for all.
 Define levels and include failover plans.
 Let sites decide.
 Focus only on cost.


12.
Key part of acceptance testing?
 Email confirmation.
 Formal test plan with rollback steps.
 Test after cutover only.
 Vendor screenshots.


13.
First step to fix billing errors?
 Stop all orders.
 Match inventory to billing and correct records.
 Dispute charges blindly.
 Charge sites.


14.
What should a decision memo include?
 Send after deployment.
 Show costs, risks, and options clearly.
 Vendor ROI only.
 Keep financials separate.


15.
Which documents are RMF inputs?
 Only POA&M.
 Security plans and configuration details.
 Vulnerability scans only.
 Memo from ISSO.


16.
Before deployment, you should?
 Rely on inherited controls.
 Review design and assign security controls.
 Wait for ATO.
 Accept risk.


17.
Supervisory duties include?
 A. Coaching only.
 B. Set priorities, review performance, handle grievances.
 C. No HR actions.
 D. Contractor oversight only.


18.
Encryption oversight means?
 Let sites choose.
 Publish rules and confirm compliance.
 Avoid enforcement.
 Use defaults only.


19.
How to ensure systems stay available?
 Write a memo.
 Define backup and failover requirements.
 Interview stakeholders only.
 Review vendor ads.


20.
Policy change process should include?
 Publish immediately.
 Review with stakeholders and legal team.
 Site survey only.
 Vendor mapping only.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙