Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
HRC0023752-12999018-FWS-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes how your background meets the minimum experience or education requirements for Administrative Officer, GS-0341-11 position. If you do not meet these requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your application materials must support the answers you claim in this assessment. If not, you may be found not qualified or your rating may be lowered.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to that of at least the GS-9 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience includes performing a full range of administrative management duties, including analyzing organizational needs; advising leadership on human resources actions and workforce planning; developing and executing multi year budgets; monitoring obligations and expenditures; managing procurement actions and property records in accordance with federal regulations; preparing and reviewing agreements; coordinating travel and payroll processes; and serving as a liaison with internal staff, external partners, and other agencies to support efficient operations.
 I have successfully completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree related to the occupation. Major courses of study may include Business Administration, Management or Organizational Management, Human Resources Management, Finance or Financial Management, Public Policy, Administrative Services, Operations Management, Leadership Studies, or Project Management
 I have not completed one full year of specialized experience as described in 1A above or the 3 years of graduate study, or doctoral degree in a field directly-related to the work of this position as shown in 1B above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience that equals at least 100%.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙