Position Title
Investigative Specialist
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
IMP-12884170-26-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current OIG Employee - Are you a current permanent career or career-conditional, competitive status Department of Justice Office of Inspector General (OIG) employee?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit:

•    A copy of your most recent career or career-conditional SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), AND
•    A copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than your most recent SF-50), AND
•    If applying for a higher grade, a copy of an SF-50 which clearly demonstrates you meet the 52-week time-in-grade requirements (e.g., Promotion with an effective date more than one (1) year old, Within Grade Increase at the highest grade held, SF-50 at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one (1) year old).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. New York, NY
 G. Dallas, TX
 H. Houston, TX
 I. Arlington, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.)1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the best statement that reflects your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the below grade levels:

GS-11
Receiving, processing and preparing complaints for the investigative process; conducting complaint inquiries and recommending appropriate actions to inquires; compiling investigative data from law enforcement sources; and verifying case related information through the use of electronic criminal investigative systems; OR completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M.

GS:12
Independently performing, processing, analyzing and preparing complaints for the investigative process; searching and gathering a broad range of investigative data from a wide variety of law enforcement sources; verifying case related information through the use of electronic criminal investigative systems and preparing statistical investigative reports for senior level managers.  ** There are no positive education requirements at the GS-12 grade level.


1.
Please select the response that best reflects your experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-12 as follows:
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent in federal service performing the duties as described above.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


2.
Please select the response that best reflects your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-11 grade level.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent in federal service performing duties such as
 I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M.
 I have some experience as described in A, but less than one year. I have completed some graduate education as described in B, but less than two years. (Note: to compute the percentages, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 I do not have the experience or education as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙