Position Title
Quality Assurance Specialist
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-13041946-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 Yes
 No


5.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current BEP employee with status eligibility.
 I am a current BEP employee serving on a permanent Veteran's Recruitment Appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance program eligible (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 None of the above.


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


5.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


6.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


8.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


9.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


10.
When the Bureau of Engraving and Printing completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


11.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Education:
Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 
or
 
Experience
Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include:
 
Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements.
Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans.
Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system.
Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance.
Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action.
Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods.
Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities.
Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals.
Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections.
 
IOR will be satisfied by the Specialized Experience.


1.

Specialized Experience for the GS-12, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

-Responding to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) audits, manufacturing operations, and the quality systems that govern them.; AND
-Reviewing and revising quality management operations according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); AND 
-Providing training to less experienced team members to perform quality management operations according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).; AND
-Providing training to less experienced team members on how to comply with security and accountability protocols.  

Select the answer that best describes your experience. 

 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties)


3.
Specialized Experience for the GS-11, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

-Demonstrating quality assurance principles, concepts, and methodology.; AND 
-Participating in International Organization for Standardization (ISO) audits, manufacturing operations and the quality systems that govern them.; AND
-Evaluating quality management operations according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). 

OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M.,
Degree must be in a major study of- quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.

OR

You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. When combining education with experience, first determine your total qualifying education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; then determine your experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; finally, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify for that grade level. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a major study - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a major study - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have a LL.M in a related major study - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have a combination of the education and experience as listed above in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. (For example: the completion of 50% requirements for Ph.D. and 6 months of specialized experience). Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education. Creditable education must be in the major study fields - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent as described above OR meet any of the additional criteria as described above.


4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties)


5.
Specialized Experience for the GS-09, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

-Applying quality assurance principles, concepts, and methodology.; AND 
-Performing quality management operations according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).; AND
-Complying with security and accountability protocols to maintain possession and accurate inventory of government property and/or security items.

OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related:
Degree must be in a major study of: quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.

OR

You may qualify by a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.

Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-07 level or equivalent as described above.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a major study - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a major study - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have a LLB or J.D in a related major study - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience listed above. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education. Creditable education must be in the major study fields - quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-07 level or equivalent OR meet any of the additional criteria as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙