Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13055499-26-KLB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Your resume and responses you provide to the assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this position.


Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-09 position, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 or higher grade level. For a GS-11 position, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09 or higher grade level. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. More than one SF-50 may be required to reflect your time-in-grade eligibility, which must be submitted with your application. NOTE: Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.


1.
If the most recent SF-50 that you have attached to this application has an effective date that is not greater than 52 weeks from the closed date of this announcement, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50(s) that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Failure to do so will result in you being found ineligible for not meeting Time in Grade requirements.

 Yes, I have included the required SF-50(s) that reflect the time-in-grade requirement has been meet. I have included my most recent SF-50 and a previous SF-50 (if needed) such as an SF-50 dated one year prior to my current SF-50, appointment, promotion, reassignment, change to lower grade, or step increase that reflects one year of service in the grade for which I am applying for.
 This requirement does not apply to me.
 No, I did not include the required SF-50 to support meeting the time-in-requirement, and I understand I will not be found eligible for either grade level.


Education and/or experience: To qualify for the Program Analyst, GS-0301-09, position, you must have one of the following: a. Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. Note: the work of the Medical Management Specialist is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance (Transcripts required). OR b. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to: (1) Knowledgeable of Medical Center operations, policies, and procedures, as well as VA regulations, and program guidelines; (2) Reviewing data, presenting alternatives, making recommendations, and assisting with developing problem resolutions; (3) Performing analytical and evaluative work that includes extracting, compiling, researching and/or tracking and reporting of data and program information; (4) Utilizing computers and applicable databases/software for statistical purposes; and managing information systems; Preparing and presenting reports for management; (5) Knowledge of accounting, budgeting and statistical principles to use in administering a wide variety of budgetary accounts and transfer of funds; (6) Utilizing a variety of software such as Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, QI Macros, Access, among other VA related software in order to compile and process data collected and produce reports in useful reporting formats. NOTE: This experience must be clearly identified in your resume. OR c. Combining Education and Experience. Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond one year of graduate education. The total percentage of education and experience must equal at least 100 percent (Transcripts must be provided).


2.
Select the option that best describes your education and/or experience qualifications for the Program Analyst, GS-09. Experience must be documented in your resume. Education must be supported with a copy of your official copy of transcripts. NOTE: In describing your experience, please be clear and specific. We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.

 I have at least one year of working specialized experience listed above that is equivalent to the GS-07 or higher grade level, which has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position, and this work experience was in or is related to the Medical Management Specialist. (Work experience MUST be in your resume).
 I have the required education that is directly related to the occupation such as a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B., if related (Must provide copy of unofficial transcripts).
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education beyond one year that totals 100% for the GS-09 (Experience must be in your resume and must provide transcripts.).
 I do not have the specialized experience or education required for this position.


Education and/or experience: To qualify for the Program Analyst, GS-0301-11, position, you must have one of the following: a. A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. Note: the work of the Medical Management Specialist is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance (Transcripts required). OR b. One year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 level, that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and this experience is typically in or related to this position to be filled. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to: (1) Performing a wide variety of analytical studies and projects related to management improvement, productivity improvement, and long-range planning; (2) Knowledgeable of Medical Center operations, policies, and procedures, as well as VA regulations, and program guidelines; (3) Reviewing data, presenting alternatives, making recommendations, and assisting with developing problem resolutions; (4) Skill to evaluate and analyze processes and procedures with multiple variables; (5) Performing analytical and evaluative work that includes extracting, compiling, researching and/or tracking and reporting of data and program information; (6) Utilizing computers and applicable databases/software for statistical purposes; and managing information systems; Preparing and presenting reports for management; (7) Knowledge of accounting, budgeting, and statistical principles and practices to use in administering a wide variety of budgetary accounts and transfer of funds; (8) Knowledge of disbursements and of fund accounting methods, procedures, and techniques used in maintaining, balancing, and closing Fund control accounts; (9) Utilizing a variety of software such as Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, QI Macros, Access, among other VA related software in order to compile and process data collected and produce reports in useful reporting formats. NOTE: This experience must be clearly identified in your resume. OR c. Combining Education and Experience: Only graduate education in excess of two full years (36 semester hours) of graduate level education may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-11. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the position. Completed course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. (Transcripts required).


3.
Select the option that best describes your education and/or experience qualifications for the Program Analyst, GS-11. Experience must be documented in your resume. Education must be supported with a copy of your official copy of transcripts. NOTE: In describing your experience, please be clear and specific. We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.

 I have at least one year of working specialized experience listed above that is equivalent to the GS-09 or higher grade level, which has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position, and this work experience was in or is related to the Medical Management Specialist. (Work experience MUST be in your resume).
 I have the required education that is directly related to the occupation such as a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related (Must provide copy of unofficial transcripts).
 I have a combination of specialized work experience and education. Only graduate level education beyond the first two years may be used in combination with experience. (Experience must be in your resume and must provide transcripts.)
 I do not have the specialized experience or education required for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙