Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13031213-HQ-ADB-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the response which best describes your Specialized Experience at the GS-11 level, and meeting the basic qualification requirements for Human Resources Specialist, GS-0201-12.
 I possess one year of Specialized experience in Design, develop, implement, and assess new and innovative customer-focused HR programs, policies, and initiatives across a wide range of functional areas (e.g., Employee Relations, Work Schedules, Telework, Drug Testing, Performance Management).
 I do not possess one year of Specialized experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙