Position Title
Health Technician (Office Automation)
Agency
Department of War Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-13007197-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) Civilian Employees

Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. (Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1"); OR

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA). You must submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflecting current DoDEA Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current DoWEA employee as described in one of the categories above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of War, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Permanent Department of War (DoW) Civilian Employee

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of War (DOW) agencies:

• U.S. Navy
• U.S. Marine Corps
• Department of the Air Force
• Department of the Army
• Other Department of War Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DOWEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of War, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are you a Current Permanent Department of War (DoW) Civilian Employee?

 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application:

• A copy of your agency notice; AND,
• A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,
• A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.

Are you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?
 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Department of War (DoW) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of War (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoW?
 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoW Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible

I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoW Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


8.
Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or
• who have preference eligibility; or
• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:

• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.
*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.
 
**The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the applicable job opportunity announcement. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD Form 214 or equivalent documentation.
 
The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Health Technician (OA) position with Department of Defense Education Activity. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Health Technician at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have six months of general experience which includes any type of work which demonstrates my ability to perform the work of the position; or experience that provided a familiarity with providing patient medical care AND six months of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-03 grade level in the Federal service which includes washing wounds; applying compresses and dressings; and following established First Aid procedures.
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level that included at least 12 semester hours in subjects related to the position, such as, medical fields of study. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the general and/or specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires a typing proficiency of at least 40 words per minute (WPM) based on a 5 minute sample with 3 or fewer errors. Are you able to type at least 40 WPM based on a 5 minute sample with 3 or fewer errors?

 Yes
 No


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙