Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic Leader
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-13043283-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Mechanic Leader position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Mechanic Leader duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks to include: (1) Leading and/or instructing others in the performance of maintenance mechanic functions/duties; (2)Maintaining of piping systems and equipment used in utility systems; (3) Maintaining and repairing industrial equipment; and (4) Demonstrating proper work methods in pipefitting and industrial equipment repair; (5) Interprets and applies building plans, specifications, blueprints, sketches, and other plumbing guides; and (6) Installs, maintains and repairs electrical and electronic controllers. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks to include: (1) Leading and/or instructing others in the performance of maintenance mechanic functions/duties; (2)Maintaining of piping systems and equipment used in utility systems; (3) Maintaining and repairing industrial equipment; and (4) Demonstrating proper work methods in pipefitting and industrial equipment repair; and (5) Interprets and applies building plans, specifications, blueprints, sketches, and other plumbing guides. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Maintenance Mechanic Leader tasks. I can (1) Leading and/or instructing others in the performance of maintenance mechanic functions/duties; (2) Maintaining of piping systems and equipment used in utility systems; (3) Maintaining and repairing industrial equipment; and (4) Demonstrating proper work methods in pipefitting and industrial equipment repair. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Maintenance Mechanic tasks or I have received training on these tasks.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙