Position Title
Attorney Adviser
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO - OGDC-26-12911472-EX Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


5.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Attorney Adviser position with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Your resume and the responses you provide will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
In order to qualify for this position at the GS-14 level, you must possess at least (1) one-year specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service and at least (3) three-years of professional legal/law experience post J.D. performing attorney duties as defined below:

Specialized experience for this position includes: 
Investigating or litigating allegations of (i) ethical misconduct by attorneys or other licensed professionals; (ii) fraud, and/or (iii) criminal activity. 
AND

Professional Law/legal experience, post J.D. is defined as: 
Professional legal/law experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled.
Legal work is described as extremely complex and difficult and requires a high order of original and creative legal endeavor in balancing conflicting interests; has broad or wide-scope impact on an economy, industry, private or public interests; and may involve directly or indirectly very large sums of money.
Work may also involve acting as principal attorney in charge of the preparation and presentation of cases; recommending policies and developing procedures and regulations to implement new or amended legislation; and acting as legal, general or senior counsel to a major firm or organization.
 I have at least (1) one -year of the specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level AND (3) three-years of post J.D. professional legal/law experience as defined in the above statements.
 My experience is not reflected in the any of the above statements.


2.
In order to qualify for this position at the GS-15 level, you must possess at least (1) one-year specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service and at least (4) four-years of professional legal/law experience post J.D. performing attorney duties as defined below:

Specialized experience for this position includes: 
Investigating or litigating allegations of (i) ethical misconduct by attorneys or other licensed professionals; (ii) fraud, and/or (iii) criminal activity. 
AND

Professional Law/legal experience, post J.D. is defined as: 
Professional legal/law experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled.
Legal work is described as extremely complex and difficult and requires a high order of original and creative legal endeavor in balancing conflicting interests; has broad or wide-scope impact on an economy, industry, private or public interests; and may involve directly or indirectly very large sums of money.
Work may also involve acting as principal attorney in charge of the preparation and presentation of cases; recommending policies and developing procedures and regulations to implement new or amended legislation; and acting as legal, general or senior counsel to a major firm or organization.
 I have at least (1) one -year of the specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level AND (4) four-years of post J.D. professional legal/law experience as defined in the above statements.
 My experience is not reflected in the any of the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Are you an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙