Position Title
Supervisory Administrative Officer
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-SR-IMP-26-12902235 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from the Department of Health and Human Services? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 
 
You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our CTAP page for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible for CTAP? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently work at the National Institutes of Health (NIH)? If so, you may be eligible to apply to this vacancy announcement.
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent NIH employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility, access eOPF and open your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50):  Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."  If you are still unsure of your eligibility, contact the individual listed in the vacancy announcement for assistance.  
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package, before the announcement closes.  You can obtain a copy from eOPF.  
Select "Yes" to this eligibility question. 
Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as an NIH Employee?  If you work at NIH, select "Yes", submit the required documentation, and we will make the determination for you.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Baltimore, MD
 B. Montgomery County, MD
 C. Durham, NC


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Administrative Officer position at our agency. The following items refer to the qualifications specified in the job announcement. Please be sure to read the instructions carefully and answer the questions to the best of your ability.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualifications requirements of a Supervisory Administrative Officer, GS-0341-15 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-15 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: 1.) Advising senior leadership on workforce and administrative planning by analyzing workforce data, organizational structures, and policy issues to support strategic and operational decisions; 2.) Supervising staff by setting performance expectations, assigning and reviewing work, providing feedback, and conducting performance evaluations; 3.) Leading workforce planning and organizational analysis efforts to improve efficiency and effectiveness across a large, multi-program organization; 4.) Providing senior-level consultation to executive leadership on workforce utilization, administrative operations, and policy implementation; 5.) Interpreting and applying personnel and administrative policies (e.g., agency policy issuances and Office of Personnel Management guidance) to advise managers on position management, staffing, and workforce development.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


2.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application.

I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment. I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information.

Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙