Position Title
SUPERVISORY LIBRARIAN
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12989940 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a minimum of three years of progressively responsible library-related work experience that includes one full year of supervisory experience AND a master's degree or higher in Library Science from an ALA accredited institution?
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years of experience do you have advising and training librarians in new and emerging library technologies, references, or related information?

 I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 7 – 10 years of experience as described above.
 I have 4 – 6 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have providing formal and informal presentations on approaches, findings, or recommendations to senior leadership?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have with designing, configuring, implementing, and/or evaluating automated library services, such as search databases, software, and websites?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
Select the response that best describes your experience with developing business objectives for short and long range plans aligned with strategic goals of the organization.
 I have led the development of and implemented a formal project plan that accurately identified the purpose, scope, objectives, and activities necessary to successfully complete the program/project.
 I have developed schedules, managed costs (when appropriate) and completed resource allocations necessary to properly manage and deliver project/program objectives.
 I have participated in the development of a project plan and assisted with the management of project schedules.
 I have identified resource allocations necessary to properly manage and deliver project/program objectives.
 None of the above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have with conducting financial analysis and budget planning?
 I have experience in all areas of financial resource management within Navy NAF.
 I have experience in some areas of financial resource management within DoD.
 I have experience in financial resource management obtain from a non-DOD federal agency or from private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


7.
How many years of experience do you have with overseeing the procurement of library items such as: books, subscriptions, copyright, and/or service and support contracts?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙