Position Title
Program Specialist (HR Liaison)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
328-26-MW-13055402-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Specialist (HR Liaison), GS-301-9/11/12, position with Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Time in Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent VA appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50. Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time-in-grade. See the required documents section for more information.



1.
Time-In-Grade requirement for Program Specialist (HR Liaison), GS-301-9; From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your time-in-grade:
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 grade level or higher or I have held the GS-9 or higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-7 grade level or higher nor have I held the GS-9 or higher grade; but I am eligible for a hiring authority such as Military Spouses; Schedule A; Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA); or 30% or More Disabled Veterans. Therefore, time-in-grade does not apply to me.
 Neither "A" nor "B" applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


2.
Time-In-Grade requirement for Program Specialist (HR Liaison), GS-301-11; From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your time-in-grade:
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 grade level or higher or I have held the GS-11 or higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-9 grade level or higher nor have I held the GS-11 or higher grade; but I am eligible for a hiring authority such as Military Spouses; Schedule A; Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA); or 30% or More Disabled Veterans. Therefore, time-in-grade does not apply to me.
 Neither "A" nor "B" applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


3.
Time-In-Grade requirement for Program Specialist (HR Liaison), GS-301-12; From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your time-in-grade:
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher or I have held the GS-12 or higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade level or higher nor have I held the GS-12 or higher grade; but I am eligible for a hiring authority such as Military Spouses; Schedule A; or 30% or More Disabled Veterans. Therefore, time-in-grade does not apply to me.
 Neither "A" nor "B" applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


Specialized Experience Requirement: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


4.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Program Specialist (HR Liaison) GS-301-9 position.
 I have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience applying and providing guidance on multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Labor Relations.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D., if related) from an accredited college or university, or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. This graduate degree or education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-9 grade level position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 My experience/ education is not reflected in the above statements "A" or "B", or "C", therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


5.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Program Specialist (Regional Office Human Resources Liaison) at the GS-11 level.
 I have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-9) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience applying and providing guidance on multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Labor Relations.
 I possess I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (such as an LL.M., if related) from an accredited college or university, or I have completed three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. This graduate degree or education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-11 grade level position. NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 My experience/ education is not reflected in the above statements "A" or "B", or "C", therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


6.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Program Specialist (Regional Office Human Resources Liaison) at the GS-12 level.
 I have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience providing advisory services, quality review services, or experience drafting and approving standard operating procedures and/or other forms of regulatory guidance covering multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Employee and Labor Relations.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


Verification Statement: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙