Position Title
Prosthetic Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12831099-26-VI Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 21, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Orlando, FL
 B. Viera, FL


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Prosthetics Representative position at the Orlando VA. This assessment questionnaire is used to assist in determining your qualification and eligibility. Please answer each question truthfully and be sure to review your answers prior to submission. All answers MUST be demonstrated on your resume. Please ensure you have submitted all required documents prior to submitting your application package. The full performance level for this position is GS-11. Based on your experience, grade levels that you may be selected for are GS-05, GS-07, GS-09 or GS-11.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience and Education. Individual must meet at least one of the requirements below.
Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team;
OR
Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree;
Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the United States must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials, and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to experience gained in conventional United States programs.
OR
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
Do you meet the required education, experience or education/experience combination above?
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a Prosthetic Representative on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: Employees grandfathered into the GS-0672 occupational series as prosthetic representatives may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. Prosthetic Representatives who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. Employees who are retained as a Prosthetic Representative under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a prosthetic representative.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in both written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


Physical Requirements. Pre-placement and periodic physical examinations are required for hybrid occupations to ensure workers are placed in positions where they can perform the essential functions of their job including their physical, mental and emotional capacities, without endangering their health or the health of their co-workers. See VA Directive and Handbook 5019.


GRADE DETERMINATIONS, Prosthetic Representative In addition to the basic requirements, you must also meet grade level requirements. The following is used to determine the grade requirements for a Prosthetic Representative at the GS-05, GS-07, GS-09, and GS-11 grade level. For a GS-05 Prosthetic Representative nothing beyond the basic requirements is required. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-05 Prosthetic Representative (Entry Level)
Experience. None beyond the basic requirement
Assignment.  At this level, the Prosthetic Representative receives training and instruction to develop proficiency in essential occupational tasks. The work is performed under close supervision.
Do you possess the requirements for the GS-05 grade level described above?   
Note:  Please be detailed in your resume as to how you meet the above experience  requirement. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-07 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental Level)
Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled.  
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to understand and apply processes, procedures, regulations, and laws as it applies to purchasing and the provision of prosthetic items/services.
Ability to coordinate multiple requests for durable medical equipment (DME), including repairs, services, and benefits.
Ability to act as a liaison with and work effectively with health care providers, patients, caregivers and vendors to ensure that the most appropriate device and services are received timely.
Ability to monitor contractors and vendors for compliance with contract requirements.
Assignment.  The Prosthetic Representative addresses questions about the provision of prosthetic items, home care equipment, benefits or service issues, to include discharge planning requirements. The employee ensures requests for items or services are complete and received in accordance with established timeframes. Work may include authorizing and preparing purchase orders for a wide variety of prosthetic and orthotic devices, medical supplies and home medical equipment and repairs. For orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, they may conduct market research, price history review, complete justification and approval, and submit to the contracting department. They ensure correct Healthcare Common Procedure Codes are entered into the appropriate database(s). They ensure surgical implants are Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved; shipped to retain product integrity; delivered to correct location; and received before for the surgical procedure. They collaborate with clinical staff when devices and equipment requires repair or replacement and takes necessary actions to resolve issues.
Do you possess the requirements for the GS-07 grade level described above?   
Note:  Please be detailed in your resume as to how you meet the above experience and KSAs requirement. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-09 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental level)
Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled.
OR, 
Education. Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours may include, but is not limited to, any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.
AND,
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of methods to identify trends and causation factors sufficient to analyze prepared data and gather information to inform and advise management.
Ability to organize, prioritize, and monitor actions to ensure timeliness
Ability to understand and articulate the benefits program options available. This includes communicating with patients, caregivers, health care providers and vendors.
Ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations.
Ability to work effectively with a clinical team and provide recommendations for prosthetic devices.
Assignment.  The Prosthetic Representative conducts home visits, in collaboration with other healthcare providers to determine if requested equipment is appropriate or can be installed in the home. They are familiar with national, VISN, and facility contracts that apply to Prosthetics and Sensory Aids Service (PSAS), and responsible for providing management with documentation pertaining to contract compliance issues or concerns. This includes working with clinical staff to create quality improvement reports. They work closely with the clinical teams to assist in identifying products available on contract that meet the medical needs of patients. Duties are typically performed independently with minimal supervision. Prosthetics representatives have knowledge and the ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations. They analyze and interpret data for trends and provide guidance to improve quality assurance, policies, and procedures.
Do you possess the requirements for the GS-09 grade level described above?   
Note:  Please be detailed in your resume as to how you meet the above experience or education and KSAs requirement. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-11 Prosthetic Representative (Full Performance Level)
Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.
Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work.
Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels.
Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns.
Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements. 
Assignment.  The Prosthetic Representative assists with management and oversight of contract programs such as home oxygen, durable medical equipment, and eyeglasses. They are responsible for the administration of benefit programs, such as home and structural alterations, automobile adaptive equipment, and clothing allowance. The Prosthetic Representative is aware of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in order to obtain specialized service programs as stated in paragraph 2.g. above. When non-contract products are required, the Prosthetic Representative assists the clinical team in developing appropriate justifications, to ensure access to the most clinically appropriate products and services when such as product functionality not available with contract products to ensure access to the most clinically appropriate products and services. The Prosthetic Representative works directly with Veterans and clinical teams to assist with applications and answer questions related to benefit programs that cannot be handled by lower level employees. They provide recommendations to the treatment team regarding the development of prescriptions and provide technical assistance and guidance on planning and coordination efforts, to address complex patient medical and rehabilitative needs for equipment, services, and benefits. They develop and monitor quality improvement metrics to ensure the program is functioning in accordance with all established guidelines. They have a full working knowledge of national, VISN, and facility contracts that apply to PSAS and responsible for providing management with documentation pertaining to contract compliance issues or concerns. This includes working with clinical staff to make recommendations for improvements based on quality improvement reports. At this level, employees may serve as the lead for the prosthetic program providing oversight of specific services within PSAS. They may assist with oversight duties including making work assignments, monitoring work flow, providing input on performance, resolving daily workplace issues, and maintaining efficient flow of patient care. They may provide training to PSAS staff and other medical center employees, students and/or trainees.
Do you possess the requirements for the GS-11 grade level described above?   
Note:  Please be detailed in your resume as to how you meet the above experience and KSAs requirement. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


7.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes: Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) If you are a current Federal Employee, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF-50). You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to show you meet the time in experience for the grade being filled. Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙