Position Title
Police Officer (Entry-Level) - 50K Recruitment Incentive
Agency
Supreme Court of the United States
Announcement Number
SCUSPD-202603-EL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 01, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Please note that cover letters are not required in order to apply, but they are accepted as they provide an opportunity for applicants to differentiate themselves from others with similar qualifications. Cover letters also allow applicants to offer clarifying information regarding their application in a narrative format. Do you understand that a cover letter is accepted and encouraged, but that it is not a required document?
 Yes
 No


3.

Notice Regarding Multiple Applications

Applications are being reviewed in the order in which they are received and remain under consideration even if a new vacancy announcement is released. Please note that submitting additional applications while waiting for a current application to be evaluated may result your candidacy review being delayed.

Please indicate below either: "Yes; this is a duplicate application" or "No; this my only active application" in order to continue.


 

 Yes
 No


4.
The Supreme Court of the United States Police Department will, when in the interest of the Court, exceptionally consider applicants that do not meet the standard eligibility criteria (e.g. college degree, one year of full-time sworn law enforcement experience, three years of active duty military service) provided that they have at least a high school degree and a minimum of three years of extensive work history in positions that develop skills and competencies that are transferrable to the role of an entry-level law enforcement officer. Consideration under this category will be on a case-by-case basis and take into account all other suitability criteria.

Please Note: By responding "Yes" you are not saying you are exceptionally qualified, you are in fact communicating that you are unqualified and would need to be considered based on other criteria. DO NOT request exceptional consideration if you meet the posted eligibility criteria. Doing so will result in your application being considered only after all other candidates have been vetted.

Do you wish to request exceptional consideration under this policy?

Yes -- I do not meet the standard qualifications, but I believe I have the experience necessary for exceptional consideration

No -- I meet the standard qualifications and do not require exceptional consideration
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Where did you first learn about the Supreme Court of the United States Police Department?
 G. USAJOBS
 E. LinkedIn
 A. Facebook
 B. Instagram
 C. Virtual Career Fair
 D. In-Person Career Fair
 H. Other
 F. Indeed


1a.
If you selected the "Other" response, please indicate below when and where you heard of us. Otherwise type N/A


The retirement system offered by the Supreme Court of the United States Police Department has a minimum service period of 20 years, and a mandatory separation age that cannot be extended past the age of 60. Applicants must be within six months of turning 21 years old, but no older than 39 years and six months of age at the time of application.


2.
Please select the appropriate response based on your age, citizenship status, and prior law enforcement coverage.
 I am a United States citizen who is at least 20 years and 6 months old, but younger than 39 years and 6 months old at the time of this application.
 I am a United States citizens who is 40 years old or older AND I am currently working as a sworn Federal law enforcement officer covered by the Federal law enforcement officer (6c) retirement plan.  Please attach an SF-50 or other documentation with your application that shows your law enforcement retirement coverage.
 I am a United States citizens who is older than 39 years and 6 months old at the time of this application and have never been covered by the federal law enforcement retirement coverage.
 I am not a U.S. citizen (regardless of age). This includes green card holders, permanent residents, and legal aliens.


3.
Do you have a high school diploma, General Education Diploma (GED), or equivalent degree and one of the following statements apply to you?
I possess (or am within six months of being awarded) an Associate's degree or higher from an accredited institution
I have at least one year prior full-time sworn law enforcement experience as a police officer authorized to carry a firearm
I have at least three years of active duty military service (or one year for Military Police, Master-at-Arms, Security Forces, or Maritime Enforcement Specialists)
I possess a minimum of three years of work history in positions that develop skills and competencies that are transferrable to the role of an entry-level law enforcement officer
 Yes -- I have a high school diploma, General Education Diploma (GED), or equivalent degree and meet one at least of the qualifications above.
 No -- I do not meet the qualifications above.


4.
Have you satisfied your legal requirements (if any) regarding registration for the Selective Service?
 Yes, I registered as legally required of all male U.S. citizens born after 12/31/1959.
 No, I did not register as required and therefore I am not eligible for U.S. government employment.
 I am not required to register due to my gender, age of immigration, being under the age of 26, or other applicable exceptions.


5.
If you currently use marijuana legally, do you commit to quitting now that you are pursuing a position in federal law enforcement? If no, please explain. Otherwise type N/A.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Have you used any illegal drug or non-prescribed medication within the last 12 months?
 Yes
 No


6a.
In the space below, disclose ALL illegal drug used and/or non-prescribed drug used (include marijuana even if used legally) regardless of when it occurred. Be sure to include ALL of the following information:
Name of drug/non-prescribed medication
Date of First Use
Date of Last Use
Maximum times you have Used each drug
Number of times you have Sold each drug
Number of times you have Purchased each drug
Number of times you have Transported each drug
Number of times you have Manufactured each drug
Please note: If your response does not clearly address EACH of these points, your application will be considered incomplete and will not be processed. Type N/A if you have no drug use history.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Have you been convicted or pled guilty or nolo contendere to, or received probation before judgment for any misdemeanor, or any offense in any other state, territory, or country, which would be a misdemeanor if committed in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


7a.
If yes, please list the date, time, and nature of the offense. Otherwise type N/A.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Have you engaged in any conduct which would constitute a felony, whether or not the conduct resulted in an arrest or the filing of criminal charges?
 Yes
 No


8a.
If yes, please describe the conduct below. Otherwise type N/A.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙