Position Title
AERIAL DELIVERY SPECIALIST (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13042737-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am a current military or prior member eligible to become a Texas National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


2.
Are you an enlisted member between the ranks of E-5(SGT) not to exceed E-8/(MSGT/1SG) -OR - W-1/WO1? Civilians without prior service should respond "No".
 I am a E-5(SGT) not to exceed E-8/(MSGT/1SG).
 I am a W-1/WO1 .
 No, I am not one of these ranks.


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the MOS qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of appointment? MOS: 92R3P/921A

*NARRATIVE: Please type your rank and MOS in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".
 Yes, I am a 92R3P.
 Yes, I am a 921A.
 No, I do not possess the required MOS, but I am willing and eligible to complete the MOS qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of appointment.
 No, I do not possess the required MOS, AND I am NOT willing and eligible to complete the MOS qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of appointment.


4.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 I have a Secret security clearance.
 I am eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment and understand that I must submit to a background investigation in order to acquire this security clearance.
 I am either not eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment due to knowledge that I would not pass a background investigation, or I am not willing to submit for a background investigation and understand that this will remove me from consideration for this vacancy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


6.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Specialized Experience Requirement for the Aerial Delivery Specialist , WG-5210-10 position.
 I have experience to plan, coordinate, facilitate, and expedite on-time movement of personnel, and airdrop cargo in accordance with applicable rules and regulations. Must possess skills and knowledge required to be certified to inspect, test, and perform quality assurance with 100% accuracy on all life support systems. Joint Air Inspection and Jump Master qualifications/currency to identify through prescribed inspection processes to eliminate malfunctions that may affect the safety of aircraft/personnel, to ensure a safe and proper drop of personnel and airdrop load from aircraft, and to insure items offered/accepted for transport by air meet proper specifications.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


7.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? If yes please upload a copy of your orders.
 Yes
 No


8.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙