Position Title
Reactor Technology Branch Chief
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12944589-26-BG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include experience which demonstrates extensive knowledge and understanding of commercial Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) facilities, particularly in the areas of systems design, instrumentation and control, risk insights, plant operations, operating requirements, technical specifications, and transient response and/or subsequent relevant experience. Examples of relevant experience may include performance as an NRC operations inspector, NRC operator license examiner, industry Senior Reactor Operator (SRO) or training instructor, startup engineer, or licensing project manager.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your education and experience to perform duties in the 1701 General and Education series.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes experience in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in A above.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙