Position Title
Investigative Analyst
Agency
U.S. Agency for International Development
Announcement Number
OIG-26-ST-13029986-CJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources:  https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who: 

• Is on Active Duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who has a disability rating of 100 percent due to injury while on active duty?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

To verify your eligibility: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility which may include:
documentation to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days (current military orders/statement of service)
verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);
verification of the member's 100 percent disability; (VA Letter AND the service members DD-214) and/or;
verification of the member's death while on active duty. (DD-1300)


Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form. To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


5.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of a disability letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist or any federal, state or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Investigative Analyst GS-1805-13 position with the U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Inspector General (OIG). We will evaluate your resume to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
GS-13 equivalent: Choose one answer that best describes your experience.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducting support work for investigations pertaining to allegations of fraud within the United States' overseas development programs.

 I have not had education, training, or work experience related to supporting investigations of fraud within America's overseas development programs.
 I have had formal education or training related to supporting investigations of fraud within America's overseas development programs.
 I have supported investigations of fraud within America's overseas development programs.
 I have planned, organized, and participated in the support of fraud investigations of America's overseas development programs.


3.
Describe the level of your experience proofreading or editing official documents

 Novice
 Some Experience
 Experienced
 Mastery
 No Experience


4.
Choose the statements that describe oral communication skills you have used on the job.

 A. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in oral presentations.
 B. I have provided anti-fraud training alone to audiences in the developing world.
 C. I have participated in anti-fraud training for audiences in the developing world.
 D. I have fostered cooperation and consensus among groups in achieving agency goals.
 E. I have briefed senior level officials from other agencies on sensitive issues.
 F. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Have you briefed U.S. or foreign government officials?

 Yes
 No


6.
Select the areas in which you have professional experience.

 U.S. financial institutions and structures
 International financial institutions and structures
 Anti-money laundering issues
 Overseas development
 Editing/proof reading official documents
 Compliance with government regulations
 None of the above


7.
Which of the following Investigative reports have you completed or reviewed?

 A. Reports of Investigation
 B. Memorandum of Interview
 C. SARC reports
 D. OIG audit reports
 E. Hotline complaints
 F. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Have you assisted on investigations or programs designed to identify civil violations and potential crimes?

 Yes
 No


9.
Select the choices that describe your experience assisting investigations.

 A. I have conducted research using open sources and databases
 B. I have assisted by using law enforcement and intelligence information
 C. I have assisted an investigations by examining banking documents
 D. I have assisted by examining trade/transactional documents
 E. I have written case analyses based upon available documentation
 F. None of the above


10.
Identify the written products you have produced independently.

 A. Briefing papers/talking points for senior officials
 B. Legal briefs
 C. Executive or official correspondence
 D. Reports of investigations
 E. None of the above


11.
Which of the following BEST describe your experience analyzing investigative complaints and/or allegations to determine patterns and/or trends?

 I have no experience in performing this task, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this task. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.


12.
Select the one response that best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management.

 I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information, and explained non-technical procedures to others.
 I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members)
 I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive.
 I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 None of the above.


13.
From the list below, select the analytical tools and techniques you have experience using.

 A. Databases
 B. Spreadsheets
 C. Charts
 D. Graphs
 E. Analyst Notebook
 F. Visual investigative analysis
 G. Statistical software
 H. Database management software (e.g., Access)
 I. Graphics or presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint, Visio)
 J. Summation/Concordance
 K. Intella or Nuix
 L. None of the above


14.
Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines?

 I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones.
 I work on multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee.
 I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently.
 In addition to managing multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assissted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant.
 None of the above.


15.
Please select the best answer choice that describes your experience and/or training working in partnership with fraud investigators to support case activity and to discuss and explain analytic reports/products and overseas development program areas.

 No experience - I do not have documented data analysis experience in performing this task.
 Novice - I have had documented training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 Intermediate - I am proficient in this task. My work in this area is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 Advanced - I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


16.
Which of the following BEST describes your experience developing white papers/research guides with unique ideas/approaches to existing investigative program challenges

 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
Have you supported investigations related to financial crimes, contract frauds or other criminal activity involving America's overseas development programs and operations?

 Yes
 No


18.
Have you designed, developed, or conducted research projects on contract or procurement fraud or other financial crimes impacting international infrastructure programs?

 Yes
 No


19.
Have you performed statistical analysis or trend forecasting for overseas development-related fraud cases?

 Yes
 No


20.
Have you spoken publicly about anti-corruption techniques or fraud indicators as related to America's development agencies operating abroad?

 Yes
 No


21.
What types of investigations and/or international development programs have you supported ? Choose all that apply.

 Humanitarian Assistance
 Bi-lateral aid
 Multi-lateral aid
 Administrative investigations
 Civil investigations
 Criminal investigations
 None of the above


22.
Select the statement that best describes your experience providing support to a federal investigative mission.

 I have researched, analyzed, and evaluated complex investigative data to draft policy or prepare reports for internal and external stake holders.
 I have applied principles, concepts, and methods to assist investigators in fact-finding and analyzing, documentary evidence in reports and case records.
 I have selected, gathered and organized information from various sources such as Lexis/Nexis and the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) databases, witness, informants or Federal, State, and local agencies.
 I have performed tasks to support the investigative and law enforcement process such as answering routine questions, conducting record and databases searches, and preparing routine reports.
 None of the above.


INSTRUCTIONS: Applicants will be required to certify that they are using their own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). To reduce the burden on candidates, the responses cannot exceed 200 words per question.


23.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


24.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


25.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


26.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


27.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙