Position Title
Program Specialist Compliance
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12957247-26-MG Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-09 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Knowledge and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations; (2) Knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect the use of program and related support resources in the area studied; (3) Knowledge of the major issues, program goals and objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the organization; (4) Knowledge and skill in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to the measurement and improvement of program effectiveness and/or organizational productivity; (5) Knowledge and ability to utilize software to retrieve information needed for program reviews (e.g., Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA), Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS). Uses systems to produce data necessary for compliance related reports (e.g., VistA,), VHA Support Services Center (VSSC) website, BISL, GovTA. Demonstrates knowledge of the Insurance Capture Buffer (ICB) software and Financial Management System (FMS).  

OR
Do you have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related

OR
Combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements for the grade. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D.
 I have a qualifying combination of experience and education
 I do not possess one of the above qualifying factors.


2.
GS-11 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Knowledge of and ability to provide the necessary guidance to Executive Leadership, Service Chiefs, committees, and other employees that is consistent with a compliant organization. (2) Knowledge of health care industry laws, policies, regulations, Health and Human Service (HHS) third party carrier laws and changes that may affect the compliance programs and expert knowledge of the Department's and WCHCS's missions, goals and objectives. (3)Knowledge of and ability to develop written standard operating procedures (SOPs) with little or no established guidelines that incorporate laws, regulations, industry standards, VISN and VHA policies and the ability to assess existing policies and procedures that address areas of organizational risk, identify non-compliant issues in policies and procedures, and effectively work with the departments in developing policies (or SOPs) that will result in compliant practices. (4) Knowledge of and ability to develop a risk management system of internal monitoring and auditing that identify potential organizational risks through trending and analysis, implementation, corrective action, and measured outcomes. (5) Knowledge of and the ability to apply VA Administrative Investigation Board policy (VA Handbook 0700). (6) Knowledge of regulatory information, particularly in the areas of health care administration, business, and financial operations. Knowledge of Generally Accepted Government Audit Standards (GAGAS) protocols and guidance to each audit. (7) Knowledge of processes to manage external reviews through research, data collection, and participation in briefings. (8) Knowledge and ability to address deficient organizational business failures and monitor corrective actions and results. (9) Knowledge and ability to utilize software to retrieve information needed for program reviews (e.g., Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA), Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS). Uses systems to produce data necessary for compliance related reports (e.g., VistA,), VHA Support Services Center (VSSC) website, BISL, GovTA. Demonstrates knowledge of the Insurance Capture Buffer (ICB) software and Financial Management System (FMS).  

OR,
Education: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively-higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. (Masters of Laws), if related. NOTE: Only Graduate Education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at the GS-11. Only Graduate Education from an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at the GS-11 grade level. Note: Education transcripts must be submitted with your application materials if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education

OR,
Combination of Education and Specialized Experience: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level.



 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at this level.
 I do not possess an above qualifying factor.


RESUME REMINDER  - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙