Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12897494 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Work requires prolonged standing, stooping, bending, kneeling, climbing, and working in tiring and uncomfortable positions. Work also requires lifting, carrying and setting up materials and equipment weighing up to 40 pounds, and occasionally handling materials and equipment weighing 50 pounds or more. Are you willing and able to perform work with these physical demands?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently possess, or are you able to obtain a valid driver's license? Driver's license review will be requested upon hire.
 Yes
 No


3.
Work for this position may be performed both inside and outside and may expose you to dirt, paint vapors and fumes.  Issued protective gear must be worn.  Are you willing and able to work under these conditions?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Do you have at least two years of experience that demonstrates skill or knowledge in a combination of at least two of the following trades: carpentry, plumbing or painting?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
Please describe your experience in carpentry to include measuring, cutting, and constructing or repairing wood or wood substitute items, such as staging parts, concrete forms and dry wall?
 I have more than three (3) years of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I do not have any experience in carpentry as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing plumbing repairs, including but not limited to removing, cleaning, resealing, and replacing defective parts or units of utility, supply, and disposal systems (such as dirty traps, broken tiles, damaged pipes, leaky faucets, and stopped drains), as well as installing water heaters, garbage disposals, faucets, and sinks?
 I have more than three (3) years of work experience in plumbing as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience in plumbing as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of work experience in plumbing as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience in plumbing as described above.
 I do not have any work experience in plumbing as described above.


4.
Please describe your experience applying paint using standard methods such as brushing, rolling, and spraying, to ensure surfaces are fully coated, protected and free from drips and runs.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience applying paint as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience applying paint as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience applying paint as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience applying paint as described above.
 I do not have any experience applying paint as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have using of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools?
 I have more than three (3) years of work experience using tools as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience using tools as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of work experience using tools as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience using tools as described above.
 I have no work experience using tools as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙