Position Title
Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
372-13031826-26-GW-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Baltimore, MD


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION -This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or a current/former VA employees who is Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT - As a current Federal GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-12 level or higher.


BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience/education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


3.
To be eligible for this position, you must have one of the following degrees. Your application MUST include a transcript (not diploma) stating the degree has been conferred or that you have graduated.
EDUCATION: Successful completion of a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling, or social work from an accredited college or university (MUST SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS).
INTERNSHIP OR EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Your degree must have included either an internship or experience as described below.
(1) Supervised Internship: The education described above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.
OR
(2) Experience: One-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
GRANDFATHERING PROVISIONS: VRCs employed within the VBA on the effective date July 28, 2023, of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certifications that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply: 1. VRCs who are grandfathered into the GS-0101 occupational series may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level of a career ladder or changed to a lower grade within the occupation or placed in a supervisory or managerial position. 2. VRCs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not be extended or reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard. 3. If VRCs who are grandfathered under this provision leave the occupation, they lose protected status and must meet the full qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation. Copy of master's transcripts is required, unless you are electing to utilize grandfathering provisions. If you are not eligible for grandfathering provisions and you do not submit a copy of your transcript, your application may not be processed.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling, or social work from an accredited college or university.
 I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023, and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I have NOT successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) as described in "A" above, nor am I eligible for the grandfathering provision in "B" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


4.
INTERNSHIP OR EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Please select the one response that describes your ability to meet the Internship or Experience Requirement for the VRC position. The education in item 3 of the Basic Requirements listed above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization or one-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.
 I have successfully completed a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. My internship was supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.
 I have successfully completed at least one-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
 I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023, and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I do not meet the requirements as stated in "A", "B", or "C" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: This section is used to determine your job-related experience. Your experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


5.
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-12 working with employment and vocational rehabilitation programs; possessing knowledge and expertise in the procedures for vocational and rehabilitation law; administering counsel in the areas of career development, job placement, psychology, rehabilitation and counseling; and  provide individual and group training, orientation, consultation and guidance within specialization of rehabilitation counseling practice to develop, improve and maintain programming.


Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-13 Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor position.


 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level or higher in the Federal service.
 I do not possess the experience described in the above statements.


CERTIFICATION/VERIFICATION -As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙