Position Title
IT CYBERSECURITY SPECIALIST (INFOSEC)
Agency
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Announcement Number
ISD-IMP-12949124-26-KR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
(CISA) Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current surplus or displaced Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Federal civilian employee?

If yes, confirm the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; and
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; and
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of the following:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of proposed removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), Certification of Expected Separation or other official agency certification or notification indicating that the employee's position is surplus (for example, a notice of position abolishment or a notice of eligibility for discontinued service retirement); AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (Name of Position's Organization is "CISA" in block 22); and
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from CISA that shows your current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including your rating.
For more information, review the Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


2.
CISA (Competitive) Employees - Are you a current Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the full performance level (or equivalent) of the position being announced? 

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action that reflects the following:
Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (Name of Position's Organization is "CISA" in block 22); and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
NOTE: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include appointment/conversion, with-in grade/range increases and promotion actions).  While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time-In-Grade.  Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time-In-Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
CISA (Non-Competitive) Employees - Are you a current Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) of the position being announced? 

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action that reflects the following:
Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (Name of Position's Organization is "CISA" in block 22); and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
NOTE: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include appointment/conversion, with-in grade/range increases and promotion actions). While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time-In-Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time-In-Grade.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal. If not applicable, please enter today's date.


5.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your most recent performance appraisal.

Please provide a copy of your most recent performance appraisal (dated within last 3 years) showing the official rating of record, signed by a supervisor, or statement why the performance appraisal is unavailable.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful
 Fully Successful/Pass
 Minimally Successful/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal.
 Not Applicable. I am not a federal civilian employee.


6.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last 3 years.
 A. Performance-Based Cash Award
 B. Cash Award
 C. Quality Step Increase
 D. Special Act Award
 E. Time-Off-Award
 F. Honorary Award
 G. Informal Recognition Award
 H. Other
 I. None of the above


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions. You may choose to opt-in to having your information shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies when applying for this position. If an agency requests a list of applicants referred for selection consideration (i.e., certificate), and you are on that list, you will be notified. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

Do you provide your consent to having your name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions?

 I consent to having my name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by CISA. I opt-out of having my name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies.


2.
For qualification determinations and to receive full consideration for relevant experience, your resume must contain complete information and support your question responses. Be clear and specific when describing your work history since human resources cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.

Your resume MUST not exceed 2-pages in length and include the following:
Full Legal Name
Phone Number
Email Address
Work history (which includes Job Titles and Employer)
Detailed description of your job-related qualifications (including tasks performed)
Start and end dates of employment with the month and year (e.g., MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to Present)
Total hours worked per week for each job listed.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, your resume MUST also include the following for all Federal positions you have held:
Pay Plan/Band (e.g., GS, WG, etc.)
Occupational series (e.g., 201, 301, 2210, etc.)
Grade level (e.g., 5, 9, 13, etc.)
For military service, your resume MUST also include your rank and/or pay grade (e.g., O-03 (Captain/Lieutenant), E-5 (Sergeant/Petty Officer Second Class), etc.).

If the pay plan/band, occupational series, grade level, and/or rank/pay grade are not provided, it may result in an ineligible determination.

Do NOT include the following types of information in your resume:
Photographs
Social media links (e.g., LinkedIn)
Personal information, such as date of birth, social security number (SSN), gender, religious affiliation, etc.
Classified or government sensitive information
Inappropriate material or content
If your resume contains prohibited information as listed above, it will result in an ineligible determination, and you WILL NOT receive consideration for this position.

Do you verify that your resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, includes all required information, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above?
 Yes, I verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above.
 No, I am not willing to verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, or may contain prohibited information as listed above. I understand my application may be deemed insufficient and I may not receive consideration for this position. I further understand that if my resume contains any prohibited information, it will result in my removal from consideration for this position.


3.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees.

In the last five years (from the closing date of this vacancy announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political appointee, Political Schedule A, Schedule C (confidential or policy-determining), or Non-Career or Limited appointee in the Senior Executive System (SES)? If yes, please provide appropriate documentation in your application package to provide proof of your current or most recent political appointment.


 Yes, I have held a political appointment within the last five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political appointment within the last five years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Information Technology Cybersecurity Specialist (INFOSEC), GS-2210-14 position with the Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENT QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-14 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the proficiency level that you have demonstrating how you meet the competency-based qualification requirements for an IT Cybersecurity Specialist (INFOSEC) at the GS-14 grade level.
 I have information technology (IT) related experience demonstrating each of the nine required competencies: 1.) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 2.) Customer Service – Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. 3.) Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change. 4.) Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems. 5.) Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations. 6.) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. 7.) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. 8.) Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals. 9.) Technical Competence - Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.
 I do not meet or exceed the proficiency level for each of the defined competencies in the statement above and I do not qualify for this position at the GS-14 grade level.


1a.
If you selected statement A above, please indicate the position(s) (i.e., job title & start and end dates of employment) listed on your resume that reflects this type of experience demonstrating each of the defined competencies. If you selected statement B above, please type "N/A".


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-14 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for an IT Cybersecurity Specialist (INFOSEC) at the GS-14 grade level.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sector). Experience includes performing the following duties: (1) Planning and conducting cybersecurity exercise programs to evaluate the security and resilience of critical infrastructure; (2) Coordinating and conducting cybersecurity seminars, workshops, games, drills, tabletop, functional, and full-scale exercises for stakeholders; (3) Provides subject-matter expertise to guide exercise design and delivery, including control or facilitation of complex or senior-level exercises; and (4) Delivering mitigation capabilities to reduce risks to critical infrastructure while strengthening coordination with federal, State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (SLTT) governments, private sector, and international partners on cyber management gaps. (NOTE: To be qualified for this position, the contents of your resume must fully support this response.)
 I do not meet or exceed the experience in the statement above and I do not qualify for this position at the GS-14 grade level.


2a.
If you selected statement A above, please indicate the position(s) (i.e., job title & start and end dates of employment) listed on your resume that reflects this type of experience. If you selected statement B above, please type "N/A".


3.
INTEGRITY CERTIFICATION
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify the accuracy of my application, and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify the accuracy of my application and/or I no longer wish to continue with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙