Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Employment Solutions) (Staffing Specialist)
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26IMP12958795SC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, Performance Appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NLRB employee on a Career or Career Conditional appointment in the competitive service? Block 24 on your SF-50 must reflect "1" or "2".  Block 34 must reflect "1".
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current NLRB employee on a Career or Career Conditional appointment in the competitive service and have held the highest grade of this recruitment? Block 24 on your SF-50 must reflect "1" or "2". Block 34 must reflect "1".
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


9.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
This position is only open to current NLRB employees in the Division of Administration, Office of Human Resources. Please respond with your current status.
 I am a current NLRB employee in the Division of Administration, Office of Human Resources.
 I am not a current NLRB employee in the Division of Administration, Office of Human Resources.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the response which most accurately describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform as a Human Resources Specialist (Employment Solutions) (Staffing Specialist) at the GS-9 grade level. 

Specialized experience includes:
Experience assisting with federal staffing and recruitment activities, including preparing job announcements, reviewing applications for qualifications, rating candidates, and supporting the hiring process under Merit Promotion, Delegated Examining, or Excepted Service procedures; and
Experience providing guidance and support to employees and management on routine to moderately complex human resources matters, including identifying issues, gathering and analyzing information, and applying HR policies, procedures, and regulations to recommend solutions; and
Experience communicating HR-related information both orally and in writing, including assisting with employee orientations, responding to inquiries, and interacting with applicants, employees, and management to provide accurate and timely service.
OR

Education: Master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of official transcripts.)
 

OR


Combination of Education and Experience: A combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100 percent. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of official transcripts.)
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level, which has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Human Resources Specialist (Employment Solutions) (Staffing Specialist) position as described above.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. if related, in a field which has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Human Resources Specialist (Employment Solutions) (Staffing Specialist) position as described above. (NOTE: You must submit copies of your official college transcripts.)
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience described in the job opportunity announcement; however, and I have at least one year of progressively higher-level graduate education but have not obtained a master’s or equivalent graduate degree. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not have the education and/or specialized experience to successfully perform the duties of the Human Resources Specialist (Employment Solutions) (Staffing Specialist) position.


3.
Your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references submitted. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period.

By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
 
Understand this warning, and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes. I verify that my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if submitted supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙