Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment & Placement)
Agency
Department of Energy - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
26-WA-00636-12964394-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


3.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments


Assessment 1
1.
To qualify for the GS-07: Applicants must have either:
Education: One (1) full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement. -OR-
Specialized Experience: One (1) year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band. Specialized experience is defined as performing administrative work, preferably within the human resources setting. Examples of specialized experience for the GS-7 include: prioritizing tasks and assignments; responding to formal and informal inquiries from customers, employees, or management; maintaining logs, reports and/or tracking systems to support office. -OR-
Combination: Have a combination of education and experience. This experience must have equipped you with the qualifications to perform the major duties of this position as described above.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meets the requirements for the HR Specialist (Recruitment & Placement), GS-0510-7 position.
 I have one (1) year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level as described above
 I have a combination of education and experience
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described in A, B, or C above


2.
To qualify for the GS-09: Applicants must have either:
Education: A Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related. -OR-
Specialized Experience: One (1) year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band. Specialized experience is defined as experience which demonstrates a basic knowledge of human resources principles, concepts, and practices. Examples of specialized experience include: providing technical assistance to employees and management in a variety of staffing and recruitment activities; conducting staffing and recruitment activities, hiring, processing pre-employment packages, conducting onboarding/orientation of new employees; providing routine human resources information to employees (e.g., pay leave, benefits, etc.), coding and processing a variety of personnel actions into a personnel/payroll databases. -OR-
Combination: Have a combination of education and experience. This experience must have equipped you with the qualifications to perform the major duties of this position as described above.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meets the requirements for the HR Specialist (Recruitment & Placement), GS-0510-9 position.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level as described above
 I have a combination of education and experience
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described in A, B, or C above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙