Position Title
Industrial Worker
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12856746-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 30, 2025 to Jan 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest the Industrial Worker position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Industrial Worker duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks which include working with new materials and applying knowledge for material selection. Operating machines to produce products. I am considered an expert in working from various sources such as written and oral instructions, blueprints, sketches, specifications, and work orders. Knowledge of the Gerber program used to cut fabric in accordance with patterns. And Assembling Patient Protective Wrap (PPW) and other textile projects, attaching elements and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range duties which include working with a variety of fabrics. Operating simple sewing machines. Utilizing written and oral instructions. I am skilled in operating the Gerber Cutter XLS. And assembling Patient Protective Wrap (PPW) and other textile projects. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties which include the ability to operate standard and industrial sewing machines. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple sewing and machine operating or I have received training in the area.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙