Position Title
Architect
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12956760-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


COEs
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This is a Temporary position intended to last 3 Years. A temporary position may be extended to a maximum of three years and may be terminated at any time during the duration of the appointment, depending upon the needs of management. Are you available for temporary employment?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Architect position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect?s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: performing architectural design for various construction projects; reviewing architectural plans and specifications for code compliance; and providing technical guidance on architectural projects to stakeholders.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


This position has selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.



3.
This position requires registration as a Professional Architect. Please indicate below the response that best describes your licensure for this position.
 I am currently registered as a professional Architect by a State, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico (Note: You must provide a copy of your licensure at the time of application for verification)
 I am not currently registered as a professional Architect by a State, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. ? There are no right or wrong answers. ? Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. ? This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are the Chief of the Architectural Section and have just received three urgent project assignments that all require completion within the next two weeks. Project A is a military barracks renovation requiring immediate safety compliance review, Project B is a civil works flood control structure needing architectural integration, and Project C is a consultant design review for a critical infrastructure project. You have four staff members available: one senior architect with extensive military experience, one mid-level architect skilled in civil works, one junior architect eager to learn, and one technical specialist proficient in CADD systems. How do you prioritize and assign this work?

 Prioritize Project A first due to safety implications, then tackle Projects B and C sequentially, assigning your strongest team members to each project as it becomes the primary focus while maintaining minimal staffing on the others.
 Assign the senior architect to lead Project A due to safety criticality and military expertise, place the mid-level architect on Project B with CADD support, have the junior architect assist on Project C under your direct supervision, and establish daily progress reviews to ensure all deadlines are met while providing development opportunities.
 Request deadline extensions for all three projects to ensure quality work, then assign projects randomly among available staff members and focus your attention on the most technically challenging aspects.
 Assign projects based on staff preferences and current workload, establish weekly check-ins to monitor progress, and plan to work overtime as needed to ensure all projects meet their deadlines.
 Divide each project among all team members to ensure knowledge sharing, establish clear daily milestones for each project, and personally oversee the most critical safety elements of Project A while delegating routine reviews to senior staff.


2.
During your quarterly performance evaluation meeting with a mid-level architect, you discover they have been consistently missing deadlines and producing work that requires significant revision. The employee explains they are overwhelmed by the complexity of recent assignments and feels unprepared for the level of responsibility. Other team members have begun to express frustration about having to redo this employee's work. How do you address this performance issue?

 Document the performance issues formally, provide clear expectations for improvement with a 90-day timeline, assign a senior architect as a mentor, and establish weekly progress reviews to ensure accountability.
 Reassign the employee to less complex projects permanently, document the performance issues, and focus on redistributing their previous responsibilities among other team members to prevent future problems.
 Develop a structured improvement plan with specific milestones, provide targeted training on areas of weakness, temporarily adjust their assignments to match current skill level while gradually increasing complexity, and schedule bi-weekly coaching sessions to monitor progress and provide support.
 Immediately recommend disciplinary action for poor performance, remove them from all critical projects, and require them to have all work reviewed by senior staff before submission.
 Have an honest conversation about performance expectations, provide additional training resources, and implement a buddy system with a senior team member while monitoring progress monthly. ________________________________________


3.
Your architectural section has been tasked with completing a major design review within an extremely tight deadline due to an unexpected change in project funding timelines. This will require your team to work extended hours for the next three weeks. Two of your senior architects have already expressed concerns about work-life balance, and one junior staff member has a family emergency that may require time off. How do you manage this situation while maintaining team morale and meeting the deadline?

 Mandate the overtime as necessary for mission success, document any refusal to work extended hours as performance issues, and focus primarily on meeting the deadline while addressing morale concerns after project completion.
 Acknowledge the challenging timeline with your team, offer overtime compensation and future comp time, arrange for temporary additional support if available, and personally take on additional responsibilities to reduce the burden on staff.
 Meet with the team to transparently discuss the situation and constraints, explore creative scheduling options including flexible hours and remote work where possible, redistribute workload to accommodate the family emergency, and implement temporary measures like catered meals and comp time to support the team through this period.
 Explain the critical nature of the deadline to the team, implement a fair rotation system for extended hours, provide additional administrative support, and promise a team celebration once the project is completed.
 Request additional staff from other sections immediately, refuse to accept the timeline as realistic, and insist that quality cannot be maintained under these conditions regardless of funding implications.


4.
You are reviewing final design plans submitted by a private sector consultant for a new military dining facility. While the overall design meets functional requirements, you notice that the proposed HVAC system placement conflicts with structural elements, the emergency egress routes don't fully comply with current life safety codes, and the specified materials may not meet military durability standards. The consultant is pushing for immediate approval to maintain the construction schedule. How do you proceed?

 Approve the design as submitted to maintain the construction schedule, noting that any issues can be addressed through change orders during construction without significant impact.
 Approve the design conditionally with specific requirements for corrections to be made during the construction phase, document all issues for contractor attention, and increase inspection frequency during construction.
 Schedule an immediate meeting with the consultant to discuss the deficiencies, provide clear guidance on required corrections, and work collaboratively to develop solutions that meet standards while minimizing schedule impact.
 Document all identified deficiencies in a comprehensive review memo, require the consultant to revise and resubmit plans addressing each issue, provide specific code references and military standards that must be met, and establish a revised timeline that ensures both compliance and project momentum.
 Focus on the most critical life safety issues for immediate correction while accepting the other deficiencies as minor, and approve the design with notes for future consideration during construction. _


5.
A junior architect on your team is struggling with a complex design challenge involving the integration of historic preservation requirements with modern accessibility standards for a civil works visitor center renovation. The project has significant cultural and community importance, and the solution must balance preservation guidelines with ADA compliance. The architect has proposed three different approaches but seems uncertain about which direction to pursue. How do you provide technical assistance?

 Select the most straightforward approach that clearly meets ADA requirements, provide detailed instructions for implementation, and assign a senior architect to oversee the detailed design development.
 Advise the architect to prioritize accessibility compliance over preservation concerns since ADA requirements are legally mandated, and recommend the approach that most easily achieves accessibility standards.
 Recommend the approach that best meets accessibility requirements while noting preservation concerns, provide relevant code references and design guidelines, and suggest consultation with preservation specialists for additional input.
 Review each proposed approach with the architect, discuss the technical merits and compliance implications of each option, guide them through a systematic evaluation process considering preservation standards and accessibility requirements, and help them develop decision criteria to select the optimal solution.
 Examine the three approaches together, provide specific technical guidance on preservation and accessibility requirements, suggest additional research into similar successful projects, and schedule follow-up meetings to review their refined proposals.


6.
During a design review meeting for a new military housing project, you discover that the fire protection systems specified by the design team do not adequately address the unique requirements of the building's mixed-use areas, which include both residential and community spaces. The current design meets basic code requirements but doesn't optimize safety for the specific occupancy patterns and risk factors present in military family housing. The project is scheduled to begin construction in six weeks. How do you address this situation?

 Approve the current design with mandatory enhancements to be specified during construction, increase fire protection inspection requirements, and document the need for upgraded systems in future similar projects.
 Halt the design approval process, conduct a comprehensive fire protection analysis specific to military housing occupancy patterns, collaborate with fire protection engineers to develop enhanced safety systems, and revise the timeline to accommodate proper safety integration while maintaining project viability.
 Accept the code-compliant design as adequate for immediate construction, plan to address enhanced safety features through future renovation projects, and focus on ensuring proper installation of existing systems.
 Require immediate revision of the fire protection design, provide specific guidance on military housing safety requirements, engage fire protection specialists for consultation, and establish an expedited review process to minimize schedule impact.
 Proceed with the current design since it meets minimum code requirements, noting that military occupants can be trained to compensate for any system limitations through enhanced fire safety procedures.


7.
You are representing the District Engineer in a high-stakes meeting with a major architect-engineer firm, military installation commanders, and regional headquarters representatives regarding a controversial design approach for a new command headquarters building. The architect-engineer is proposing an innovative but untested structural system that could save significant costs, the installation commanders are concerned about long-term maintenance and security implications, and headquarters is pressuring for immediate approval to meet congressional funding deadlines. Each stakeholder group has valid concerns and significant influence over the project's success. How do you navigate this situation?

 Acknowledge all stakeholder concerns as valid, request additional technical documentation from the architect-engineer to address security and maintenance questions, propose a modified timeline that allows for proper evaluation while meeting critical funding milestones.
 Defer the decision to headquarters representatives since they have ultimate authority over funding, avoid taking a technical position on the controversial system, and recommend that installation commanders adapt their requirements to accommodate the proposed approach.
 Support the architect-engineer's proposal based on potential cost savings, recommend acceptance with enhanced quality control measures during construction, and emphasize the importance of meeting funding deadlines over other concerns.
 Facilitate a structured discussion that addresses each stakeholder's concerns systematically, present objective technical analysis of the proposed system including risk assessment and mitigation strategies, propose a phased decision approach that allows for additional validation while maintaining schedule flexibility, and seek consensus on evaluation criteria for final approval.
 Present the technical merits and risks of the proposed system objectively, recommend a conservative approach that prioritizes proven systems over cost savings, and suggest alternative cost reduction strategies that don't involve unproven technology.


8.
A disagreement has emerged between your architectural section and the structural engineering section regarding load-bearing requirements for a critical infrastructure project. The structural engineers are insisting on conservative design factors that will significantly increase costs and construction complexity, while your team believes current codes allow for more efficient solutions. The project client is frustrated with the delays and is threatening to seek alternative design services. Upper management expects a resolution within 48 hours. How do you handle this inter-organizational conflict?

 Document both positions thoroughly, escalate the technical disagreement to the appropriate technical authority for resolution, and communicate transparently with the client about the technical review process and expected timeline.
 Meet separately with the structural engineering section chief to understand their concerns, review relevant codes and standards together, develop compromise solutions that address safety concerns while controlling costs, and present a joint recommendation to the client.
 Advocate strongly for your section's position based on code compliance and cost efficiency, request management support for your approach, and emphasize to the client the importance of cost-effective solutions in the current budget environment.
 Organize an immediate technical review meeting with both sections, bring in an independent structural consultant for objective analysis, prepare a comprehensive comparison of both approaches with risk and cost implications, and present unified recommendations to management and the client with clear technical justification.
 Agree to the structural engineering requirements to resolve the conflict quickly, absorb the additional costs within your project budget, and focus on maintaining the client relationship rather than pursuing technical disagreements.


9.
You have been asked to provide authoritative guidance to a joint military-civilian planning committee regarding architectural standards for a new multi-use facility that will serve both military personnel and the local community. The military representatives want designs that reflect security requirements and military standards, while civilian stakeholders prefer designs that integrate with local architectural character and community needs. Federal regulations require consideration of both perspectives, but the approaches seem fundamentally incompatible. How do you provide clear policy guidance?

 Suggest designing the facility primarily to civilian community standards since it will be more visible to the public, with military security requirements addressed through operational procedures rather than architectural features.
 Create separate design standards for military and civilian areas of the facility, establish clear boundaries between different functional zones, and provide guidance that allows each area to meet its respective requirements independently.
 Facilitate workshops with both stakeholder groups to identify common ground and areas of conflict, develop design principles that address security needs while respecting community character, and provide policy guidance that establishes clear priorities for different facility areas.
 Recommend prioritizing military security requirements as the primary design driver while incorporating civilian aesthetic preferences where they don't conflict with security needs, and provide policy guidance that emphasizes federal facility standards.
 Research successful precedents of similar dual-use facilities, develop a framework that identifies areas where military and civilian requirements can be harmonized versus areas requiring separate solutions, present clear policy guidance that addresses both sets of needs through zoned design approaches, and establish evaluation criteria for design proposals. ________________________________________


10.
You are managing the architectural aspects of a complex civil works project that involves multiple phases over three years. The project is currently in Phase 2, but you've discovered that design decisions made in Phase 1 are creating significant complications for Phase 3 implementation. The current phase is on schedule and budget, but proceeding without modifications will likely result in major cost overruns and schedule delays in the final phase. The project sponsor is focused on maintaining current phase momentum and is resistant to any changes that might affect near-term milestones. How do you address this situation?

 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of the Phase 3 implications, develop alternative solutions with cost and schedule impacts, prepare a detailed presentation showing long-term project benefits of early intervention, and propose a modified approach that minimizes Phase 2 disruption while preventing Phase 3 problems.
 Proceed with the current approach since Phase 2 is meeting its objectives, assume that Phase 3 complications can be resolved through additional funding or schedule adjustments when they arise.
 Focus on completing Phase 2 successfully as planned, document the potential future issues for consideration during Phase 3 planning, and recommend addressing complications through design modifications in the final phase.
 Document the potential Phase 3 issues thoroughly, present the analysis to the project sponsor with clear recommendations for corrective action, and propose a risk mitigation strategy that balances current momentum with future project success.
 Continue with the current Phase 2 approach while developing contingency plans for Phase 3 complications, establish a risk register for future issues, and plan to address problems when Phase 3 design begins.


11.
Your team is using CADD systems to review work in progress on a major military construction project, and you've discovered significant inconsistencies between different design disciplines' electronic files. The architectural, structural, and MEP drawings contain conflicting information that could lead to serious construction problems. The design team is distributed across multiple locations, and coordination meetings have been challenging to schedule. The project deadline is approaching, and the contractor is requesting final drawings for procurement activities. How do you resolve this coordination issue efficiently?

 Organize an intensive coordination workshop bringing together key representatives from each discipline, use CADD overlay capabilities to identify all conflicts systematically, establish clear protocols for resolving discrepancies, and implement enhanced quality control procedures.
 Focus on resolving the most obvious conflicts that would affect construction, document remaining discrepancies for resolution during construction, and release drawings with notes indicating areas requiring field coordination.
 Release the drawings as currently designed since minor discrepancies can be resolved through contractor requests for information during construction, and focus on maintaining the project schedule rather than perfect coordination.
 Assign senior staff to conduct detailed reviews of all discipline interfaces, create a conflict resolution matrix, prioritize the most critical discrepancies for immediate attention, and establish daily coordination calls until issues are resolved.
 Implement an immediate electronic file coordination protocol using CADD system clash detection tools, establish virtual coordination meetings with all disciplines, create a shared revision tracking system, and develop a systematic review process that ensures all conflicts are resolved before final drawing release.


12.
You are coordinating the architectural elements of a project where the client has requested significant scope changes that will improve functionality but exceed the original budget by 15%. The structural and MEP engineers have indicated they can accommodate the changes, but it will require redesign work that could delay the project by six weeks. The client is willing to provide additional funding but needs the project completed by the original deadline for operational reasons. Your architectural team would need to work extensive overtime to meet the compressed schedule. How do you manage this scope, cost, and schedule challenge?

 Accept the scope changes and additional funding, implement a compressed schedule with planned overtime, and establish enhanced project controls to monitor progress and manage risks associated with the accelerated timeline.
 Analyze the scope changes to identify which elements provide the highest value and can be implemented within existing schedule constraints, propose a phased approach that delivers critical improvements on time with remaining enhancements in a follow-on phase, and develop a resource plan that minimizes overtime while meeting essential deadlines.
 Accept all scope changes and commit to the original deadline regardless of resource requirements, plan to absorb any cost overruns within the existing budget, and assume that intensive effort will overcome schedule constraints.
 Present the client with clear options showing the trade-offs between scope, schedule, and cost, recommend prioritizing the most critical scope changes for immediate implementation, and propose bringing in additional contract support to maintain the schedule.
 Recommend proceeding with the original scope to maintain schedule and budget certainty, document the requested changes for potential future implementation, and focus on delivering the original project requirements successfully.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙