Position Title
Law Clerk
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-WDTX-13033184-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Alpine, TX
 B. Del Rio, TX
 C. Midland, TX


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Applicants must have completed their law degree from a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) within the previous year. Law school graduates who received their JD prior to June 1, 2025 are not eligible. Select the response that best describes your education status.

 I received my JD degree on or after June 1, 2025.
 I received my JD degree prior to June 1, 2025.
 None of the above.


2.
Applicants must have a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0. Select the response that best describes your GPA.

 I graduated with a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0.
 I graduated with a GPA below 3.0.


3.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙