Position Title
Industrial Hygienist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADC-26-12992681-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. *ALL APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.
 I have a bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or related science; or a bachelor?s degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene; or certification from the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (external link) (ABIH). Courses in the history or teaching of chemistry are not acceptable.
 My education is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 GS-13: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Provides guidance and employee exposure criteria and ensures that appropriate consideration is given to IH (Industrial Hygiene) and OH (Occupational Health) issues in the plans and program for the development and evaluation of new or additional facilities, equipment, and procedures. Develops and uses trending and data analysis to create proactive plans, design effective safety systems, and implement robust procedures for workplace operations supporting these diverse organizational elements. Develops and promulgates agency?s IH, OH, and SM (Safety Management) policies and guidelines to prevent adverse reactions to ergonomic conditions, exposures to ionizing and non-ionizing radiation sources, and other hazardous workplace conditions.
 GS-14: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Mastery of advanced occupational safety and health concepts, principles, and practices, including a deep understanding of OSHA regulations, consensus standards (ACGIH, AIHA), relevant legal precedents, and DoD directives. Operates with significant autonomy and is delegated responsibility for actions, decisions, and expert technical advice provided on complex Industrial Hygiene matters. Identifies hazards that are unusual or complex, evaluates a wide range of data from diverse sources, and institutes or recommends effective control measures to protect the workforce.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


3.
A regional program office is preparing to implement a new industrial process that may introduce complex chemical exposures. Senior leadership asks you to provide technical guidance on potential IH risks and recommended controls. How do you approach advising management in this situation?

 Conducts a comprehensive evaluation of potential exposures, applies authoritative IH expertise, interprets regulatory and technical requirements, and delivers clear, actionable recommendations to leadership including risk mitigation strategies, monitoring plans, and implications for regional operations.
 Gives general comments about possible risks but does not conduct a detailed assessment or provide evidence based guidance to leadership.
 Identifies key exposure concerns and offers basic recommendations, but guidance lacks depth, regional perspective, or integration of regulatory and technical requirements.
 Provides minimal input, waits for others to identify hazards, and offers no technical analysis or recommendations.


4.
You receive exposure monitoring data, medical surveillance summaries, and recent reports indicating a possible increase in respiratory symptoms among employees in several facilities. How do you approach analyzing this information to determine whether adverse exposure trends exist and what actions are needed?

 Performs a structured review of exposure results and medical surveillance data, identifies potential concerns, and suggests general follow up actions, but the analysis lacks depth or trend evaluation across facilities.
 Notes that some issues may exist but conduct only a basic review of exposure data or medical reports without integrating the information or identifying root causes.
 Conducts a comprehensive, data driven analysis integrating exposure measurements, surveillance outcomes, and facility specific variables; identifies statistically meaningful trends, determines likely causal factors, and provides leadership with clear, evidence based recommendations for corrective actions, targeted monitoring, and program improvements.
 Reviews the information superficially, overlooks inconsistencies or trends, and takes no steps to correlate exposure data with medical findings.


5.
During a regional review, you identify several operations where existing controls do not fully meet DoD and DLA requirements for reducing chemical and physical health hazards. Leadership asks for your recommended course of action. How do you proceed to ensure hazards are reduced in compliance with applicable instructions?

 Reviews relevant DoD and DLA instructions, identifies gaps in current controls, and offers basic recommendations, but the plan lacks prioritization, implementation strategy, or clear alignment with mandated standards.
 Acknowledges that improvements may be needed but provides only general suggestions without evaluating specific requirements or proposing compliant corrective measures.
 Takes no meaningful action, does not reference DoD or DLA requirements, and leaves existing deficiencies unaddressed.
 Conducts a thorough assessment of deficiencies, interprets applicable DoD and DLA instructions, and develops a detailed, actionable plan that prioritizes risk reduction, specifies required engineering and administrative controls, outlines timelines, and advises leadership on compliance implications and resource needs.


6.
A facility reports employee exposures to a combination of noise, hexavalent chromium, and isocyanates. Leadership asks for guidance on what occupational medical surveillance is required and how often examinations should occur. How do you approach determining the appropriate surveillance elements and frequency?

 Conducts a comprehensive review of exposure profiles, applicable OSHA, DoD, and DLA surveillance requirements, and relevant medical standards; determines precise surveillance elements for each hazard; integrates them into a coordinated program; and provides leadership with clear, evidence based recommendations for examination frequency, documentation needs, and follow up actions.
 Reviews basic surveillance requirements for each exposure and proposes general examination schedules, but the recommendations lack integration, risk based justification, or alignment with agency specific policies.
 Gives general suggestions about medical monitoring but does not analyze exposure types, regulatory requirements, or appropriate examination intervals.
 Provides no meaningful input, does not reference exposure-specific requirements, and offers no guidance on surveillance or examination frequency.


7.
Your organization is updating its local Industrial Hygiene policies and SOPs to align with new DoD and agency wide requirements. You are asked to contribute to the development of these documents. How do you approach this task to ensure the policies and SOPs are accurate, effective, and compliant?

 Provides no meaningful input, does not review requirements, and contributes nothing to policy or SOP development.
 Offers general comments but does not analyze regulatory requirements or provide substantive content for the policies or SOPs.
 Reviews relevant guidance and provides basic input or edits, but contributions lack depth, integration of technical IH principles, or clear alignment with updated requirements.
 Conducts a thorough review of applicable DoD, DLA, OSHA, and agency requirements; drafts or revises policy and SOP language with clear technical accuracy; ensures procedures reflect best IH practices; coordinates with stakeholders; and delivers well structured, compliant documents that support consistent implementation across the organization.


8.
You are tasked with helping oversee an organization-wide Industrial Hygiene program that spans multiple facilities with varying mission requirements. Leadership asks how you would ensure consistent program performance, compliance, and risk reduction across all locations. How do you approach this responsibility?

 Implements some oversight activities such as periodic reviews or basic coordination with facility IH staff, but efforts lack a comprehensive strategy, standardized processes, or systematic performance evaluation.
 Offers general suggestions for improving the program but does not establish processes, metrics, or coordinated oversight to ensure consistency across locations.
 Develops and executes a coordinated, organization wide IH program strategy; establishes standardized procedures, performance metrics, and reporting mechanisms; ensures compliance with DoD, DLA, and OSHA requirements; provides technical leadership to facility IH teams; and advises senior leadership on resource needs, emerging risks, and continuous improvement opportunities.
 Takes no meaningful action, provides no program oversight, and does not monitor compliance or performance across facilities.


9.
You are responsible for ensuring continuity of operations within the DOEHRS IH Program Office during periods of staff turnover, system updates, and shifting mission priorities. Leadership asks how you will maintain consistent program performance and data integrity across these transitions. How do you approach this responsibility?

 Provides limited support by addressing issues as they arise but does not establish procedures, documentation, or coordination mechanisms to ensure continuity.
 Maintains basic continuity by following existing procedures and communicating with staff, but efforts lack a structured approach to documentation, quality assurance, or long term program stability.
 Takes no action to maintain continuity, does not document processes, and allows data quality or program operations to lapse during transitions.
 Implements a comprehensive continuity strategy that includes detailed process documentation, standardized workflows, data quality controls, cross training of personnel, and proactive coordination with stakeholders; ensures uninterrupted DOEHRS IH operations, accurate data management, and consistent program performance despite staffing or system changes.


10.
A significant mishap occurs at a facility involving potential overexposure to hazardous substances. You are asked to participate in the investigation to determine contributing factors and recommend corrective actions. How do you approach your role in the investigation?

 Performs a thorough IH focused investigation that includes reviewing exposure data, interviewing affected personnel, evaluating controls, identifying root causes, and integrating IH findings into the overall mishap analysis; provides leadership with clear, evidence based corrective actions to prevent recurrence.
 Conducts a basic review of exposure conditions and contributes some IH related observations, but the analysis lacks depth, structured methodology, or clear linkage to root causes and corrective actions.
 Provides little to no involvement, does not review exposure conditions, and contributes no meaningful information to the investigation.
 Participates minimally by offering general comments but does not gather exposure data, interview personnel, or analyze IH related factors contributing to the mishap.


11.
You are assigned to evaluate several facilities where recent inspection reports indicate potential deficiencies in ventilation, chemical handling, and exposure monitoring practices. You must conduct or analyze physical inspections, IH sampling, and administrative audits to determine compliance and risk levels. How do you approach this task?

 Completes standard inspections, conducts required sampling, and reviews administrative records, but the analysis lacks depth, integration of findings, or clear prioritization of risks.
 Conducts little to no inspection or sampling, overlooks deficiencies, and provides no meaningful audit findings or documentation.
 Executes comprehensive inspections using advanced IH methodologies; conducts targeted sampling based on hazard profiles; performs detailed administrative audits; integrates all findings into a cohesive risk assessment; and provides leadership with clear, data driven recommendations for corrective actions, compliance improvements, and long term monitoring strategies.
 Performs basic walkthroughs and reviews limited documentation but does not conduct systematic sampling or a structured audit; identifies only obvious issues.


12.
You are responsible for developing the annual master schedule for Industrial Hygiene surveys across multiple facilities with varying mission requirements, hazard profiles, and staffing levels. How do you approach building a schedule that ensures regulatory compliance, risk based prioritization, and efficient use of IH resources?

 Designs a fully integrated, risk based master schedule using hazard rankings, historical exposure data, regulatory requirements, and mission priorities; coordinates with facility leadership and IH staff; allocates resources strategically; and ensures timely, compliant, and efficient execution of all required surveys across the organization.
 Builds a functional schedule that accounts for major hazards and required survey frequencies, but lacks comprehensive risk analysis, stakeholder coordination, or optimization of IH resources.
 Develops a basic schedule but relies on generic intervals without considering risk levels, facility differences, or workload constraints.
 Creates no schedule or produces one that ignores mission needs, hazard levels, or regulatory requirements.


13.
After completing a series of industrial hygiene surveys across several high-risk operations, you must prepare a written report summarizing sampling results, identified deficiencies, and recommended corrective actions. How do you approach developing this report to ensure it is accurate, comprehensive, and actionable for leadership?

 Produces no report or submits an incomplete document lacking results, findings, or recommendations.
 Prepares a functional report that includes sampling results and identified issues, but the analysis lacks depth, clarity, or well supported recommendations tailored to the hazards.
 Develops a detailed, well structured report that integrates sampling data, exposure assessments, root cause analysis, and clearly documented deficiencies; provides evidence based, prioritized control recommendations; and communicates findings in a format that supports leadership decision making and compliance actions.
 Provides a basic summary of observations but omits key sampling data, fails to clearly identify deficiencies, or offers vague recommendations.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙