Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Assistant Aquatics Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13001868 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
In this position you will plan, administer, promote and supervise a comprehensive year-round aquatics program that includes but is not limited to: swim instruction program, lifeguard and water safety instructor training program, CPR/First Aid/ AED instruction, assistance with physical readiness training, aqua group exercise, facility rental and special programming.

Please select the option below that best describes your level of experience with these programs.
 I have 5 or more years of experience with aquatics programs in the MWR/military environment.
 I have 5 or more years of experience with aquatics programs.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with aquatics programs.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with aquatics programs.
 I do not have experience with aquatics programs.


2.
Please select the option below that reflects your level of experience with the care and maintenance of aquatics facilities and equipment. This includes health, safety, fire, security, and sanitation standards.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with these tasks.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with these tasks.
 I have less than one year of experience with these tasks.
 I do not have any practical experience in these tasks.


3.
Please select the option that best describes your experience with promotion of the facility and programs for maximum participation on an ongoing basis.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience promoting programs in the community.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience promoting programs in the community.
 I have less than 1 year of experience promoting programs in the community.
 I have not practical experience in this task.


4.
Please select the best option that describes your experience with recruiting and interviewing personnel, retention of current employees, evaluating work performance and monitoring talent development.
 I have 5 or more years of experience in personnel management.
 I have 3 to five years of experience in personnel management.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in personnel management.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in personnel management.
 I do not have experience in this task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
This position requires the following certifications:
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
Automatic external defibrillator (AED) and first aid certifications
Water Safety Instructor (WSI)
Lifeguard Instructor (LGI)
Aquatic Facility Operator (AFO)
And must possess a current Aquatic Exercise certification from an accredited certifying Aquatic or health and fitness organization.
Do you certify that you have these certifications and have provided them with your application?
 Yes
 No


6.
This position requires an associate's degree from an accredited college or university with a course of study in the field of recreation and aquatic education. 

OR 

Three (3) years of directly related aquatics recreation experience. 

Please select which best describes your education/experience level.

 I have an associate degree in recreation and aquatics, or related field.
 I have some college with 3 + years of experience in aquatics recreation.
 I do not have a college however, I have 3 + years of experience in aquatics recreation.
 I do not have any college and less than 3 years' experience in aquatics recreation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
This position may require you to work early mornings/nights/weekends/holidays as necessary to fulfill program needs. Are you available and willing to periodically work these days/hours?
 Yes
 No


8.
This position may require you to drive between facilities. Do you curreently possess a valid driver license?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙