Position Title
Supervisory Fish and Wildlife Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
USFWS-26-13047226-DH-ARW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION. The following questions address if you are eligible to apply to this job opportunity announcement through Merit Promotion procedures. You will only be considered under the options you have selected. You may qualify for more than one eligibility, so please choose carefully. If you respond that you do not meet any of the following criteria, you will not be considered for this position under this announcement. Please refer to the announcement for additional information. You must submit a complete application by the close of the announcement to be considered.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Question
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that best describes how your background meets the requirements for the position. Read all responses before making your selection.  You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire.  YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.


Basic Education Requirement


1.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the basic requirement for the GS-0401 occupational series.

 I possess a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I possess a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 None of the above reflect my basic qualifications for the position.


Minimum Qualifications GS-13


2.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the GS-0401-13 minimum qualification requirements for this position:

 I possess one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience includes: 1) coordinating a natural resources conservation program and leading others to achieve defined goals, including development of project timelines and implementation of projects according to schedules; 2) providing administrative, scientific, and technical leadership for a scientific program or project, including supervising or managing a staff of biological or natural resource professionals; 3) dealing with controversial natural resources management issues, negotiating with a diverse group of internal and external stakeholders to resolve conflicts; 4) providing leadership, which includes planning, organizing, and directing the work of other individuals focused on the conservation of natural resources; 5) applying knowledge of appropriate Federal statutes and regulations to fish and wildlife conservation; and 6) contributing to overall office strategic planning by establishing priorities, developing long-range program objectives, overseeing hiring and staffing actions, ensuring efficient use of financial resources in support of office operations and aligning conservation activities with organizational goals.  NOTE: Your resume must contain sufficient information in these areas to be found qualified.
 I do not possess the above qualifications.


Two-Page Resume Acknowledgement Statement


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contain the required information to qualify for the position.

 Yes
 No


Certification Statement


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙