Position Title
Supervisory Case Management Specialist - OPA 90 Pollution Response
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12936237-HQ-CJ-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1

INSTRUCTIONS: Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.



1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes our experience and/or education which meets the Minimum Qualifications Requirements for Position Supervisory Case Management Specialist GS-0301-14.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service to include: * Directing large-scale program operations, integrating policy, financial, and regulatory requirements to ensure timely access to resources and compliance with organizational and statutory mandates. * Supervising and mentoring multidisciplinary teams, setting priorities, distributing work, and ensuring accurate and timely execution of complex program functions. * Leading or coordinating training and outreach programs for internal and external stakeholders, advising senior leaders and staff on organizational policies, funding mechanisms, and operational procedures. * Cultivating and managing strategic relationships with government, industry, and community partners, representing the organization at high-level meetings and forums. * Directing strategic planning and oversight of program activities, resolving complex problems, and driving continuous improvement and innovation in program management.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


3.

I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙