Position Title
ENGINEERING TECHNICAN
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVJ-26-13044593-DE-NAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Albuquerque, NM
 B. Provo, UT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8
9


3.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in employment with Reclamation, Upper Colorado Basin Region. Your application for the position of Engineering Technician will be evaluated based on your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. You must be clear when describing your experience, we may not make assumptions in determining qualifications. Your responses are subject to verification and must be clearly reflected in your resume or you will be determined to be not qualified.

Under this hiring authority, applicants must currently reside within 60 miles of the duty location of Provo, Utah OR 60 miles of the duty location of Albuquerque, NM. 

You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation listed under the "How to Apply" tab (i.e. verification of residence, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement.


1.
GS-07 - Select the response that describes your qualifying experience for this position.
 My resume reflects one year of full time experience equivalent to the GS-06 level: 1) utilizing computer aided drafting (CAD) software, 2) experience in surveying and 3) construction cost estimating of materials for projects.
 I have completed 1 full year of graduate level education directly related to the work of the Engineering Technician such as, engineering, construction, industrial technology. My transcripts are uploaded with my application.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 None of the above.


2.
GS-08 - Select the response that describes your qualifying experience for this position.
 My resume reflects one year of full time experience equivalent to the GS-07level performing: 1) creating packages and drawing sets utilizing Computer Aided Design (CAD) software with accuracy and attention to detail; 2) surveying and construction cost estimating of materials and 3) inspecting contractors work.
 None of the above.


3.
GS-09 -Select the response that describes your qualifying experience for this position.
 My resume reflects one year of full time experience equivalent to the GS-08 level in federal service: 1) creating packages and drawing sets utilizing Computer Aided Design (CAD) software with accuracy and attention to detail; 2) surveying and construction cost estimating of materials, 3) conducting field inspections to ensure contractor work meets requirements and standards and documenting findings; and 4) Preparing change orders, modifications, or technical review of claims, and preparing cost estimates.
 I have completed 1 full year of graduate level education directly related to the work of the Engineering Technician such as, engineering, construction, industrial technology.
 I have completed a combination of specialized experience and education that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙