Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-13055972-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Louisville, KY
 B. Detroit, MI
 C. Nashville, TN
 D. Huntington, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Specialist position using the Direct Hire Authority for Certain Personnel of DoD Workforce with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-5/7/9/11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am either (A) a current civilian employee in DoD who occupied GS-1102 positions or contracting positions with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000; OR (B) I am a current military member who occupied a similar occupational specialty to the GS (or equivalent)-1102 on or before September 30, 2000.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am either (A) a current civilian employee in DoD who occupied GS-1102 positions or contracting positions with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000; OR (B) I am a current military member who occupied a similar occupational specialty to the GS (or equivalent)-1102 on or before September 30, 2000.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes procuring a wide variety products and services; administering terms and conditions of contracts; negotiating and awarding contracts and contract modifications; performing price/cost analysis; monitoring contractor's performance; performing work associated with termination of contracts.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate-level education (or law school) in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as, Business, Communications, Computers and Math, Engineering and Technology, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Languages and Humanities, Education, or Healthcare Administration. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor’s degree and am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achshonor.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B or C. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing contracting and procurement work such as: procuring a wide variety of products and services; administering terms and conditions of contracts; and follow-up with vendors on delivery.
 I have successfully completed a masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, or organization and management. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing contracting and procurement work such as: procuring a wide variety of products and services; administering terms and conditions of contracts; follow-up with vendors on delivery, invoicing and payment; performing price/cost analysis to determine price reasonableness; or similar contracting work.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, or organization and management. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙