Position Title
Engineering Technician (Drafting)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-27-13083952-DHA
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ RH 396965 13083952 MP
.
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Technician (Drafting) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience utilizing an electronic document management system to catalog, file, and organize engineering documents; AND using Computer-Aided Design and Drafting (CADD) systems to create and update drawings of equipment and facilities in an industrial or campus setting.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
