Position Title
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST (APPSW)
Agency
Defense Security Cooperation Agency
Announcement Number
DSCA-26-12918370-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense, Department of State, or intelligence community employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include  your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Information Technology Specialist (APPSW), GS-2210-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector.

 I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled. Specialized experience is described as: serving as a senior advisor with mastery of IT application software principles to lead projects for the design, development, and management of systems and application software. This includes mastery in O365, SharePoint Online, Power Platform, and front-end web development technologies (e.g., SPFx, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS) to build responsive applications. Experience also includes utilizing API management platforms (e.g., MuleSoft, Azure API) and demonstrating expert skill in developing and delivering written and oral presentations to all levels of management.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙