Position Title
FFSP Child Counselor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12776101 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2025 to Aug 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Interdisciplinary (Child Counselor) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for Tier II clinical providers described in SECNAVINST 1754.8, which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for Tier II clinical providers described in SECNAVINST 1754.8, do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for Tier II clinical providers described in SECNAVINST 1754.8, do you have two years full-time, post-masters supervised clinical experience?
 Yes
 No


4.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for this position, do you have at least 4 years' specialized experience in applying various counseling approaches and techniques to counsel children, adolescents, and families?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙