Position Title
AIRFIELD OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-13027325-AR-T526-024 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
Are you currently a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you claiming Veterans Preference based on a disability? If so, do you require reasonable accommodation?
 Yes
 No
 I do not wish to disclose this information


3.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC A: NG employees at the Army Aviation Support Facility #1
 AOC B: NG employees in the State Army Aviation Directorate (This includes State Army Aviation Office, Army Aviation Support Facility 2, and Eastern Army Aviation Training Site)
 AOC C: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC D: All Service Members of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC E: Federal Employees in an Agency outside of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC F: U.S. Citizen Applicants


Short Essay Questions (6 items)
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education, and/or training providing a good understanding of administrative methods for accomplishing the work of an organization? Do you have experience working with Federal, State and municipal regulations governing the use of transportation vehicles? Experience in maintenance of inventories and cost computations?
 Yes, I do.
 No I do not.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience in interpreting regulations/requirements and developing local policies to implement changes effectively? Do you have experience applying applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations concerning transportation and traffic procedures? Do you have experience preparing reports and recommendations involving appeals, special permits, adjustments in rates and charges? Do you have experience which involved negotiations with carriers on individual shipments or traffic movement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience interpreting regulations/requirements and developing local policies to implement changes effective?


3a.
Explain your experience to the question above


4.
Do you have experience applying Federal, State, and local laws and regulations concerning transportation and traffic procedures?


4a.
Explain your experience to the question above


5.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


6.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes, I have.
 No, I haven't.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙