Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSMP-26-12994250-WA-B Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Current or Former Federal Employee (Lateral or Downgrade): 
Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Promotional): 
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
Current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service that currently holds or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level than the position being announced.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of The Interior employee AND your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service who is applying for a promotional opportunity as outlined above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (generally appointment and termination SF-50s) and acceptable performance (generally performance appraisal ratings or memorandum of record where the supervisor documented an acceptable performance level, or reference by supervisors, etc.) for the 24-month period. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 I. Canon City, CO
 J. Lakewood, CO
 N. Minneapolis, MN
 R. Omaha, NE
 U. Philadelphia, PA
 V. Cheyenne, WY
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Fairbanks, AK
 C. Phoenix, AZ
 D. Barstow, CA
 E. Point Reyes Station, CA
 F. Redding, CA
 G. Riverside, CA
 H. Sacramento, CA
 K. Atlanta, GA
 L. Savannah, GA
 M. Coeur d'Alene, ID
 O. Billings, MT
 P. Butte, MT
 Q. Missoula, MT
 S. Albuquerque, NM
 T. Dickinson, ND


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Merit Promotion applicants who are in a current GS position or have held a GS position any time in the previous 52 weeks (one year) must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-13 position you must have served 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-12. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. SF-50(s) that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application (e.g. Promotions, STEP Increases, etc.). Award SF-50s will not be accepted for determination of time-in-grade. Note: Time-In-Grade requirements also apply to former Federal civilian employees applying for reinstatement as well as current employees applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment.
 I meet the Time in Grade requirements as defined above and have provided the appropriate documentation with my application package.
 I do not meet the Time in Grade requirements as defined above and/or unable to provide the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications GS-13


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Please select the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to the Specialized Experience requirement for the GS-13 grade level.
 I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility equivalent to grade GS-12 in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes tracking expenditures by proper accounts and type; providing information on salary calculations and employment ceilings for incorporation into budget planning, preparation, and execution; analyzing and evaluating changes in program plans and funding and their affect on the budget; and preparing financial reports consistent with regulations and guidelines
 I do not possess the above experience.


2.
Do you have a current rating of record dated within the past 18 months, at the fully successfully level or higher?

 Yes - you must provide a copy of your most recent completed Employee Performance Appraisal Plan (EPAP) documenting your rating of record to be considered for this position.
 No - you must provide a reason by answering the following question.


3.
If you answered no to question, "Do you have a current rating of record dated within the past 18 months, at the fully successfully level or higher?" please provide an explanation:



4.
If you do not have a current rating of record available, you must certify that your performance is acceptable, and you have not been advised that your performance is currently at an unacceptable level. "I certify that my performance is acceptable, and I have not been advised that my performance is currently unacceptable."

 Yes
 No


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙