Position Title
Physical Therapist Supervisor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12926891-26-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Physical Therapist are prescribed by VA Handbook 5005/99, Part II, Appendix G12 - February 27, 2018. To qualify for appointment as a Physical Therapist in VHA, all applicants must meet the following.


Basic Education and/or Experience - Must meet at least one of the following requirements below:.
(a) Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist. -OR-
(b) Master's Degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist. -OR-
(c) Doctorate degree in physical therapy.


1.
Basic Education and/or Experience - Do you meet the education and/or experience requirements as indicated above?


NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) accredited college or university. The CAPTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education (USDE) and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) to accredit entry-level physical therapy programs. Verification of accredited programs may be obtained from the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) at www.apta.org. Copy of Transcript is required for proof of completed education requirements.
 I possess a Bachelor’s degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 I possess a Master’s degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 I possess a Doctorate degree in physical therapy.
 I am a Foreign Graduate and possess a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
 I do not possess the required education and or experience required for this position.


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


2.
Licensure - You must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.

EXCEPTION: Non-licensed physical therapists (PT's), who otherwise meet the basic requirements, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate PT at the GS-11 grade level for a period not-to-exceed two years.

Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license, to practice physical therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia -OR- will you be fully licensed within the next two (2) years?
 Yes, I am fully licensed to practice physical therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT fully licensed. However, I am pursuing licensure and intend on becoming fully licensed within the next two (2) years.
 No, I am NOT fully licensed, NOR will I be able to obtain licensure within the next two (2) years and acknowledge my application may not receive further consideration.


2a.
Please provide your license/certification information. Otherwise, indicate N/A.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
English Language Proficiency: Individuals appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA must be proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in the English Language?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-14 Physical Therapist (Supervisor, Service Care Line Manager or Service Chief) 

a) Experience.  In addition to meeting the basic requirements, one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level. In addition,  demonstrate all the following KSAs.  

b) Demonstrated Knowledge Skills and Abilities:
Advanced knowledge of evidenced- based practices and clinical practice guidelines in multiple professional areas. 
Skill in managing interpersonal relationships and conflict resolution in dealing with a range of employees, discipline lead(s), and administrators. 
Ability to translate extensive rehabilitation knowledge in local policy development. 
Ability to effectively supervise staff by providing clinical and administrative oversight. THIs includes ability to manage resources, evaluate employees and assign work. 
Ability to collaborate with strategic planning committees at local, VISN or national levels for new ventures addressing patient care delivery systems, facilities management, system reorganizations, etc. 
Do you possess the Specialized Experience and KSAs listed above to qualify for the GS-14 Grade Level?
 Yes, I am fully licensed as a PT and possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade.
 No, I do NOT possess ALL the required experience, education, or licensure to be appointed at the GS-14 level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙