Position Title
Branch Chief
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12999515-26-DB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Arlington, TX


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science
 C. 1306 - Health Physics


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


4.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Assessment 1
This assessment will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Branch Chief, GG-0801/1301/1306-15. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the duties in the 0801 Engineering series. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than firstyear physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics
 I have a combination of education and experience qualifying for this position. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. 2. Written Test -- I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in answer choice A. or 4. Related curriculum -- I completed curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field AND I have at least one year of professional engineering experience.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the duties in the 1301 Physical Science series. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience, or additional education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the duties in the 1306 Health Physics series. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) in natural science or engineering that included at least 30 semester hours in health physics, engineering, radiological science, chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and/or calculus.
 I have a combination of experience and education that includes at least 30 semester hours in health physics, engineering, radiological science, chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and/or calculus, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I am certified as a health physicist by the American Board of Health Physics and have appropriate experience and other education that provided an understanding of sciences applicable to health physics comparable to that described in answer choice A.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG-15 grade level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outline in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙