Position Title
Senior Level Attorney
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
OLC-26-12853973-DEST Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an attorney who is an active member of the bar and in good standing?

All Senior Level Department attorney positions are excepted from the competitive service (also known as "excepted service positions") and classified as "Schedule A" positions. Unless otherwise specified by law or regulation, appointments in the excepted service are made in accordance with such practices as the Attorney General or delegee finds necessary.

To be considered under this eligibility, you must possess a J.D. degree or equivalent from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association and be an active member of the bar in good standing in a state, U.S. territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

Additionally, you must meet all the requirements of the position as stated in the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


2.
You will be required to complete a pre-employment security investigation and background check which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


3.
Selective Service registration is required for males born on, or after, December 31st 1959. Those not registered must submit an approved exemption. Please select the response that best fits how you meet this condition of employment. Please click here (https://www.sss.gov/faq/#who-needs-to-register) to learn more about who needs to register.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have registered for the Selective Service System.
 I am a male born before December 31st 1959, and am not required to registered for the Selective Service System.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not registered for the Selective Service System, but have a valid approved exemption. (Documentation must be submitted with your application.)
 I am not a male and am not required to register.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not yet registered for the Selective Service System.


4.
You may be required to complete a one-year probationary or two-year trial period. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


5.
You must meet all eligibility requirements by the closing date of this announcement and continue to meet these requirements throughout the hiring process. Offers can be rescinded if requirements are not met. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


6.
If selected, you may be required to disclose financial information in accordance with DOJ and Federal ethics guidelines. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


7.
As a basic requirement for entry into the SL, applicants must provide evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of senior executive level management capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ).

Are MTQs documented on your resume?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙