Position Title
FUL - Hydrologic Technician
Agency
Geological Survey
Announcement Number
USGS-26-13047843-FUL-SA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Tuscaloosa, AL
 AB. Flagstaff, AZ
 AL. Glendale, AZ
 AM. Tucson, AZ
 AN. Yuma, AZ
 AO. Fayetteville, AR
 AP. Little Rock, AR
 AQ. Eureka, CA
 AR. Moffett Field, CA
 AS. Poway, CA
 AT. Redding, CA
 AU. Redlands, CA
 AV. Sacramento, CA
 AW. San Diego, CA
 AX. San Luis Obispo, CA
 AY. Santa Cruz, CA
 AZ. Truckee, CA
 BA. Ukiah, CA
 BB. West Sacramento, CA
 BC. Dover, DE
 BD. Davie, FL
 BE. Fort Myers, FL
 BF. Orlando, FL
 BG. Tallahassee, FL
 BH. Tampa, FL
 BI. Norcross, GA
 B. Mount Vernon, IL
 C. Urbana, IL
 D. Iowa City, IA
 E. Baton Rouge, LA
 F. Ruston, LA
 G. Baltimore, MD
 H. Frostburg, MD
 I. Jackson, MS
 J. Lees Summit, MO
 K. Rolla, MO
 L. Helena, MT
 M. Boulder City, NV
 N. Carson City, NV
 O. Mercury, NV
 P. Coram, NY
 Q. Cortland, NY
 R. Asheville, NC
 S. Charlotte, NC
 T. Raleigh, NC
 U. Oklahoma City, OK
 V. Tulsa, OK
 W. Central Point, OR
 X. Eugene, OR
 Y. Klamath Falls, OR
 Z. Portland, OR
 AA. Troutdale, OR
 AC. Williamsport, PA
 AD. Columbia, SC
 AE. Hardeeville, SC
 AF. Nashville, TN
 AG. Austin, TX
 AH. Fort Worth, TX
 AI. San Angelo, TX
 AJ. San Antonio, TX
 AK. The Woodlands, TX


7.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last three years; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Hydrologic Technician, GS-1316-08 position with the United States Geological Survey. Your resume, supporting documentation and responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your response is subject to verification. Please review your response for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Please select the one response below that best describes how your experience or education meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Hydrologic Technician, GS-1316-08 position. If you do not meet these minimum qualification requirements, you will be considered not qualified for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors. Specialized experience include work as a technician or aid in engineering, earth, physical, or natural science, forestry, soil conservation, or surveying; trades or crafts work in maintenance or construction of facilities or equipment related to hydrology; drafting; or construction estimating. Experience performing a variety of stage and discharge measurements using appropriate techniques, equipment and protocols, statistical and/or technical analyses of hydrologic data collected in the field and performing field measurements such as water temperature, specific conductance, pH, dissolved oxygen and alkalinity.
 I have at least 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education (36 semester hours, 54 quarter hours or the equivalent) leading to a master's degree or possession of a master's degree in (a) major study in hydrology or other field of study directly related to the work of this position.
 I have a combination of qualifying education and experience which includes successful completion of education and experience as described above. Equivalent combination of direct related graduate level education and specialized experience. Applicants may substitute a combination of appropriate specialized experience (as described above) and appropriate graduate level education (as described above) that is beyond the first year of progressive graduate study to meet the qualification requirements.
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙