Position Title
FUL-Park Ranger (Visitor Services Specialist)
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYO-26-13044664-FUL-MER Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. 

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 75 miles from 3121 Visitors Center Rd, Decatur, AL 35603


If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Temporary NTE 1039 Hours Park Ranger (Visitor Services Specialist), GS-0025-05 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience/education meets the minimum qualification standards for the Park Ranger (Visitor Services Technician) GS-5 position. (Resume must reflect response.)
 I have 1 year of specialized experience that was equivalent to at least the GS-04 level in the Federal service. Examples of this type of experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park-related work. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include, but are not limited to, the following: Park guide or tour leader; Law enforcement or investigative work (park related); Archeological or historical preservation research work; Forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; Management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with 24 semester hours of related course work-- natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. I will provide my transcript.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in response A above and education as described in response B above. (Determine the percentage of qualifying specialized experience you possess and determine the percentage of qualifying education you possess. Add the two percentages together. The total percentage must equal at least 100% in order to qualify based on a combination of experience and education). This experience is described in my resume/application and I will submit copies of my college transcripts.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education mentioned above.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙