Position Title
Medical Records Technician (ROI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13026675-26-YAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Miami, FL
 B. Oakland Park, FL


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected, but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


1.
Experience or Education. Experience. You must possess one (1) year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT (ROI) work - OR - Education. You must possess an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records) - OR - Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following experience and educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:

a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses.

b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. The training program may be substituted on a month- for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy and physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.

Do you possess the required education, experience and/or combination of education and experience as described above?

Grandfathering Provision Exception: All persons employed in VHA as a MRT (ROI) on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/ registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
 Yes, I possess the required experience.
 Yes, I possess the required education.
 Yes, I have a combination of experience and education.
 No, I do not possess the required experience, education, or experience/education combination.


2.
English Language Proficiency. MRTs (ROI) must be proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes.
 No.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates:



3.
Medical Records Technician (ROI), GS-04: Experience or Education. None beyond basic requirements.

Do you possess basic experience or education?
 Yes. I possess basic experience or education.
 No. I do not possess basic experience or education.


4.
Medical Records Technician (ROI), GS-05: Experience. You must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level. Examples of this includes, but is not limited to, performing the following type of work: receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information, and prioritize requests per policies and regulations; use various computer applications to track and release all authorized ROI requests; process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors; ) initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records; ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information, etc.; - OR - Education. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).

Do you possess at least one year of experience at the GS-04 grade level?

In addition to the GS-05 experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

1)    Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products utilized in MRT (ROI) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, release of information systems, etc.).
2)    Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and processes for disclosing protected health information.
3)    Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.
4)    Knowledge of policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.
5)    Ability to communicate with individuals from various backgrounds to obtain the desired effect or gain information by establishing rapport.
 Yes. I possess at least one year of experience at the GS-04 grade level.
 No. I do not possess at least one year of experience at the GS-04 grade level.


5.
Medical Records Technician (ROI), GS-06: Experience. You must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level. Examples of this includes, but is not limited to, performing the following type of work: receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests according to policies and regulations; utilize various computer applications to track and release all authorized release of information requests; process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors; y initiate and maintain accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records; communicate with internal and external stakeholders to provide technical expertise regarding the release of information process; ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information, etc.

Do you possess at least one year of experience at the GS-05 grade level?

In addition to the GS-06 experience above, you must demonstrate all the following KSAs: 

1)    Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and 38 U.S.C. § 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records).
2)    Ability to apply health record documentation guidelines and processes to navigate efficiently through the paper and/or electronic health record to locate, assemble, and disclose protected health information.
3)    Ability to apply policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information to process requests for release of information. 
4)    Ability to research and solve difficult questions related to release of health information in an accurate and timely manner.
 Yes. I possess at least one year of experience at the GS-05 grade level.
 No. I do not possess at least one year of experience at the GS-05 grade level.


RESUME/CV REMINDER - Your resume/CV must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title; Occupational Series and Grade (if a federal position); Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); and Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


DOCUMENT REMINDER- Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit a SF-50 (if you are a current VA/Federal employee), licenses, transcripts and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, certification/registration, transcript(s), etc. may make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). To obtain your SF-50s, VA employees may access your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) by going to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/. All other Federal employees must contact their serving HR Office for assistance accessing their eOPF. It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙