Position Title
Engineering Technician (Drafting)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13055653-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8
9


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Technician (Drafting) position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service which includes utilizing Computer-Aided Design and Drafting (CADD) software (such as Bentley MicroStation or AutoCAD) to produce, modify, or maintain technical drawings; AND assisting with field investigations, taking physical measurements, or collecting basic field survey/instrumentation data.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes utilizing CADD software (such as MicroStation, AutoCAD, or similar applications) to develop, modify, or update civil, mechanical, electrical, or architectural drawings from rough sketches, redlines, or field notes; AND performing routine field data collection, conducting basic surveying, or gathering structural/environmental monitoring measurements; AND maintaining and updating paper and electronic file databases.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service which includes developing, revising, and maintaining detailed engineering drawings, maps, or as-builts using CADD software (such as MicroStation, AutoCAD, or similar applications) based on field investigations, redlines, or project specifications; AND conducting topographic, boundary, or construction surveys using GPS, Total Station, or conventional surveying equipment and processing raw data into drawings OR operating, testing, or recording data from field instrumentation used to evaluate the condition, settlement, or stability of civil structures, earthworks, foundations, or infrastructure; AND maintaining and updating paper and electronic file databases.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙