Position Title
Supervisory Financial Administrative Specialist - Accounts Management
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13061333-TM
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND , your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center . To verify your eligibility , you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
.
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume: Prioritize most relevant and recent experience Use concise, results focused language Align language from the job announcement Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies Remove outdated or unrelated experience Use the USAJOBS resume builder Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at: https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/ SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.
.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2.
As part of your application, please provide the name, position title, organization, telephone number, and email address for two professional references. One reference must be a current or former supervisor who supervised you within the previous three years. If a current or former supervisory reference from the previous three years is unavailable, you may provide an alternate reference from a coworker or another employment-based source who directly observed your work. If you have limited or no employment history, an academic reference, such as a professor, teacher, or instructor, may be used. Personal references, such as friends or relatives, may be used only as a last resort when no employment or academic references are available and should be able to speak to your work skills and work habits. Please note that Hiring Officials may request alternate or additional references as needed.
Sup Fin Admin Spec 13061333
.
Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 and your latest Within Grade Increase or Promotion SF-50 as well. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply; The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG). Without these, we are unable to verify these requirements and you could be deemed unqualified for not meeting Area Of Consideration, Time In Grade or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so. ALL APPLICANTS Critical Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have at least 52 weeks one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level. Failure to provide the required information on your resume to accurately assess your experience may result in being deemed unqualified for this position.
1.
Specialized Experience/Education Requirement: Applicants may quality for this position with specialized experience, education, or a combination. Select the appropriate answer based on your current level of specialized experience and or education to meet the requirement.. Notes: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of specialized experience at or comparable to the required grade level. Transcripts are required if using education as any part of meeting the qualification requirement.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Specialized experience includes: Demonstrated ability to: organize work, set priorities, and determine resource requirements; determine short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinate with other organizations or parts of the organization to accomplish goals; monitor progress and evaluates outcomes. Experience that provided management oversight, guidance and direction for monitoring activities designed to ensure the integrity and accuracy of healthcare collection activities. Experience that monitors and evaluates administrative activities, implementing substantive recommendations for program improvements, ensuring effective use of office staff and resources within given timelines, and recommending needed changes to enhance services.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B. or J.D in a field related to this position that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 None of the above.
2.
Time-in-Grade Restriction: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this restriction does not apply to you.) Select the appropriate response below.
 I have held a GS-07 or higher grade for at least one year.
 I currently hold a GS-09 or higher grade.
 The requirement is not applicable to me.
 I do not meet this requirement.
