Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist (CUSTSPT)
Agency
Drug Enforcement Administration
Announcement Number
H-DEA-26-12884392-IMP-BB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Department of Justice (DOJ) employee (e.g., JMD, DEA, BOP, U.S. Marshals Service, ATF, etc.) who is serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service and have never held the grade or full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of Justice (DOJ) employee (e.g., JMD, DEA, BOP, U.S. Marshals Service, ATF, etc.) who is serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service and AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You have held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher grade level as the position being advertised; OR
You have permanently (non-temporarily) held the full promotion potential of this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your tenure and competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full promotion potential of current or past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
Career or Career-conditional (Block 24: Tenure field is 1-Permanent or 2 - Conditional); AND,
Status in the Competitive Service (Block 34: Position Occupied field is 1- Competitive Service); AND
Remarks show the full promotion potential/performance level (Block 45)

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee?

Submit a copy of your applicable SF-50, along with a statement that provides the following information regarding your most recent political appointment:
Position title;
Type of appointment (Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES, or Presidential Appointee);
Agency; and,
Beginning and ending dates of appointment.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory IT Specialist (CUSTSPT) GS-2210-14 position with the Federal Government. Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.


1.
BASIC EXPERIENCE: The Information Technology (IT) Management Series, 2210, has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR), which must be met for this position in addition to the specialized experience requirement. From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies.

 I have IT related experience demonstrating these four competencies: 1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and 4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I do not have the IT related experience demonstrating these four competencies listed.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Please select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as Supervisory IT Specialist (CUSTSPT) at the GS-14 level.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 Federal grade performing the following duties: ???????1) Presenting detailed and comprehensives reports with action plans to leadership; 2) delivering advice, guidance, and direction on a wide range of planning & integration and administrative issues; 3) analyzing technical guidance in all matters regarding IT Moves, Adds, Changes, and Deletes (MACD) requirements and processes while advising in MACD support for both Firebird and Merlin; 4) interpreting policies, determining program needs, independently planning design, and carry out work as a technical authority in data management and applications software development; 5) advising in support structures, operating systems software, specialty software, hardware, communications, and systems inter-relationship.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙