Position Title
CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-26-12831748-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 14, 2025 to Monday, November 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Basic requirements are established by the Department of Defense for the 1102 series position. Please select the answer that best fits your situation. READ EACH STATEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE MAKING YOUR SELECTION.

 I possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees.
 I don’t have a degree, but I am a current civilian employee in DoD, who occupied a GS-1102 position or contracting position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000. SF-50s must be provided to show applicant is a current 1102 and has been in this series since October 1, 2000 if using this exception.
 I don’t have a degree, but I am a current civilian employee in DoD, who served as a military member in a similar occupational specialty to the GS-1102 on or before September 30, 2000.
 I do not meet the education requirements OR the military/civilian employee options listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Contract Specialist position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. READ ALL THE STATEMENTS BELOW COMPLETELY BEFORE MAKING YOUR SELECTION.

 If applying for the NH-II: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (NH-I/GS-4) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Procuring a wide variety products and services; administering terms and conditions of contracts; negotiating and awarding contracts and contract modifications; performing price/cost analysis; monitoring contractor's performance; or performing work associated with termination of contracts; OR
 If applying for the NH-II you may substitute education for specialized experience at the NH-II level. Substitution of education for experience requires you to possess 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M., if related to the position being filled; OR
 If applying for the NH-II you may use a combination of education and specialized experience to qualify IF you have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; AND you have more than two years, but less than three years of education as described in B. You must compute the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 If applying for the NH-III, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (NH-II/GS-11) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Providing business advice to customers; performing all pre-award/post-award functions; using a wide range of contracting methods and types to procure a variety of commodities, services and/or construction.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience or combination of education and experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙