Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13069852-26-HB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


4.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Staffing: Part I, Chapter 3, Section A, pre-employment reference checks are an assessment method used in the hiring and selection process to verify the information provided by an internal or external candidate, gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities, and assist a hiring official with making a final selection for a position.

In the textbox below, please provide the following for at least 3 professional references. One of these references must be your current supervisor. If a current supervisor is not available, you may provide a previous supervisor within the previous three years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted.
Name
Affiliation (i.e. supervisor, co-worker, professor, etc.)
Dates of affiliation
Position title
Organization
Telephone number
Email address
By providing this information and submitting your application, you are consenting to Human Resources Staff and/or Hiring Managers contacting your references.

If a supervisory reference is not available, you may provide an alternate or additional reference from a professional source, such as a co-worker, professor, or other individual who has directly observed your work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, etc.

If a candidate does not grant permission to conduct reference checks with current/former supervisors or a hiring official is unable to reach at least one supervisory reference, and the candidate is unable to provide any alternative references, a hiring official must document and communicate the lack of acceptable references to the HR staff. A hiring official must consider the lack of acceptable references as a factor during the selection process if they were unable to verify work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, and so forth. A hiring official must cease selection consideration of that candidate.

Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Management Analyst position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that experience and education are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.

Required Time in Grade: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. You must provide the correct SF50 verifying time in grade, please see qualifications section.
For this vacancy, applicants must have held the following for at least a year:
For a GS-11 position you must have held a GS-09 or higher.

Note: Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old


Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.



You must be a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Health Administration or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible to apply to this announcement. CTAP eligibles are current surplus or displaced employees from the Department of Veterans Affairs.  Ensure you review the 'Eligibilities' section, select the appropriate response, and submit the required documentation. Failure to do so will result in you being rated as ineligible, and providing false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Open to the following:
You must be a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) or VA Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible to apply to this announcement.

NOTE: CTAP eligibles are current surplus or displaced employees from the Department of Veterans Affairs.  Ensure you review the 'Eligibilities' section, select the appropriate response, and submit the required documentation. Failure to do so will result in you being rated as ineligible, and providing false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

Are you a current, permanent VHA employee or has the VA given you documents stating that you are CTAP eligible? Please pick the relevant response below.
 Yes
 No


2.
You may qualify based on your specialized experience and/or education as described below. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-11 Management Analyst position. Make sure your resume and/or transcript(s) supports your response that you select.

Specialized Experience to Qualify at the GS-11:
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. In order to meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet 3 of 5 of the following examples of specialized experience:
Planning, coordinating, and executing executive-level administrative and business support functions. Anticipating scheduling conflicts, resource needs, and logistical issues before they arise and resolving them proactively.
Developing, maintaining, and monitoring electronic and paper records management systems and integrated reporting systems spanning multiple interrelated program areas. Assembling, crosschecking, analyzing, and interpreting data from a variety of sources to produce accurate, decision-ready information.
Responding to routine personnel-related inquiries and researching established personnel policies and SOPs to provide guidance to staff.
Composing executive-level correspondence, memoranda, and reports for senior leadership, communicating and coordinating with staff and leadership at all levels,  and producing meeting summaries and recommendations.
Conducting studies analyzing program and organizational performance, and applying analytical techniques (e.g., trend, root-cause, comparative) to develop recommendations that directly support senior executive policy decisions.
 OR,

Education to Qualify at the GS-11: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree which related to the work of the position or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED)

OR,

Combination of Education and Experience to Qualify at the GS-11: An equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described above may be used to meet the total qualification requirements for this position. Only graduate education in excess of a master's or equivalent graduate degree which related to the work of the position may be used to qualify at this level. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED)

 I have one-year of specialized experience listed above at the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I possess a PhD or equivalent graduate degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I possess a combination of qualifying specialized experience and education as described above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.


Resume reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title, duties performed (list the duties you performed under each individual job title), month and year start/end dates (i.e. June 2007 to April 2008,) full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week), and Series and Grade (if applicable) for all positions you have held. You may be disqualified for lack of the required information on your resume.

Your resume and responses to this Questionnaire will be evaluated to determine if you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other supporting documents.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙