Position Title
Telecommunications Specialist
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-DO/OPA-26-13046665 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


FLETC Data
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the Federal Government) so this is not applicable to me.


3.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal Government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


4.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


5.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


6.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


7.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


8.
You must submit a copy of your college transcript (unofficial is acceptable) from an accredited institution listing the college/university, degree confirmation date(s) and applicable courses for the position you are applying to.

If selected, applicants must provide an official college transcript prior to appointment.

I have submitted a copy of my transcript with all required information.
 Yes
 No


9.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


Assessment 1
1.
This position has an individual occupational requirement (IOR) which must be met in order to qualify for this position.  Select the one statement that best describes the education or specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Telecommunication Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 Undergraduate and Graduate Education: I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in major study -- electrical or electronic engineering, mathematics, physics, public utilities, statistics, computer science, telecommunications management, information systems management, business administration, industrial management, or other fields related to the position to be filled. Other Education: Communications/electronics or automatic data processing training in technical institutes or business schools above the high school level or in Armed Forces schools that included advanced instruction in addition to basic courses, may be substituted for general experience on a month-for-month basis. Must provide transcripts.
 Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience in evaluating, analyzing, developing, managing, or improving communications systems, procedures, and requirements that demonstrated knowledge of current developments and trends in communications concepts and technology.
 I do not meet the education requirements OR specialized experience described above.


2.
In addition to the individual occupational requirement (IOR), please select the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to the Telecommunication Specialist GS-0391-12. Please ensure your response is supported by your resume.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service providing technical and operational support for audiovisual, video teleconferencing, telecommunications, and multimedia systems used for meetings, conferences, ceremonies, training events, or similar activities. My experience includes operating, testing, troubleshooting, maintaining, or configuring A/V and VTC equipment; coordinating technical event requirements with customers, leadership, technical staff, contractors, or vendors; supporting event production planning and execution; developing or applying procedures, schedules, records, or technical documentation; assisting with system maintenance, upgrades, procurement, inventory, or budget requirements; and recommending technical solutions to improve system reliability, operational readiness, cost effectiveness, or user productivity
 My experience is not listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙