Position Title
Clinical Psychologist (Specialty Program Coordinator - Challenge)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
SCR-26-13040274 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


7.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


8.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


9.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


10.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


11.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.



1.
Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above?
 Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.
 No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


2.
To be considered at the Grade 13, in addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes, I meet all education requirements and experience for the GS-13 position.
 No.


3.
Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Selective Factor:

Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia.
Do you meet the selective factor for this position?
 Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist.
 No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.

You are the new Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator for a cognitive-behavioral substance abuse treatment program at a federal correctional institution. The program has been experiencing inconsistent treatment delivery, declining participation rates, and concerns about the quality of clinical documentation. You have three master's-level clinicians on staff who are delivering individual and group interventions to 60 offenders with co-occurring substance abuse and antisocial behavior diagnoses. The warden has asked you to address these program deficiencies while ensuring evidence-based practices are maintained.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate program oversight approach in this situation?

 Focus primarily on reviewing case files to identify documentation gaps, provide written feedback to clinicians about their paperwork deficiencies, and schedule monthly meetings to discuss administrative compliance issues related to the treatment program.
 Establish a structured clinical supervision model that includes weekly case consultations with each clinician to review treatment planning and interventions, conduct direct observation of group sessions to assess fidelity to the cognitive-behavioral model, implement standardized outcome measures to track participant progress, and develop a performance improvement plan that addresses both clinical service delivery and administrative requirements.
 Coordinate with the clinicians to develop a new intake assessment process for identifying appropriate candidates for the program, co-facilitate several groups with each staff member to model appropriate therapeutic techniques, and prepare a quarterly report summarizing program activities for institutional leadership.
 Attend relevant training workshops on cognitive-behavioral interventions for substance abuse populations, share current research articles with the clinical team during monthly staff meetings, and assist clinicians by taking on some individual therapy cases to reduce their caseloads.
 None of the above.


2.

An inmate in your residential substance abuse treatment program at the correctional facility has been diagnosed with both methamphetamine use disorder and antisocial personality disorder. He has completed four weeks of your 12-week cognitive-behavioral treatment program and participates in both your psycho-educational groups and process groups. During individual sessions, he has begun to identify his criminal thinking patterns but continues to minimize the harm caused by his past behaviors. He recently expressed frustration about his relationships with family members who have distanced themselves from him.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate therapeutic intervention approach in this situation?

 Co-facilitate a psycho-educational group session on family communication skills with another staff member, provide individual supportive counseling focused on his expressed frustration, and refer him to the social worker for assistance with family contact issues.
 Develop an individualized cognitive-behavioral treatment plan that targets his specific thinking errors related to minimization and victim impact, facilitate individual therapy sessions using cognitive restructuring techniques to address his criminal thinking patterns and interpersonal difficulties, conduct a process group session that explores the connection between substance abuse and relationship dysfunction, and integrate evidence-based interventions that address both his antisocial attitudes and substance use disorder within the residential treatment milieu.
 Facilitate a cognitive-behavioral psycho-educational group on identifying thinking errors, develop an individual treatment plan that addresses his substance abuse and relationship concerns, and provide weekly individual therapy sessions that utilize motivational interviewing and cognitive-behavioral techniques to help him explore the consequences of his criminal behavior.
 Meet with him individually to provide supportive therapy focused on his current emotional state, co-facilitate a process group addressing family relationships with a colleague, and document his progress in adjusting to the treatment program expectations.
 None of the above.


3.

You are conducting assessments for inmates being considered for admission to the Special Management Unit's treatment program. Each candidate requires a comprehensive psychological evaluation to determine appropriateness for the program and to establish baseline treatment needs. An inmate referred this week has a history of institutional violence, documented psychiatric treatment for bipolar disorder, past polysubstance abuse, and previous participation in a failed treatment program. You need to complete your evaluation to inform both diagnostic impressions and specific treatment recommendations for the treatment team meeting scheduled in five days.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate assessment approach in this situation?

 Conduct a thorough clinical interview with the inmate to gather psychosocial history, administer and score multiple validated psychological instruments including personality measures (MMPI or PAI), substance abuse screening tools (SASSI or ASI), and criminal thinking inventories, review his institutional files and prior treatment records, interpret the assessment data to develop diagnostic impressions, and prepare a comprehensive written report that includes a clinical conceptualization and specific treatment recommendations for the program.
 Schedule a clinical interview with the inmate to review his treatment history and current symptoms, administer the MMPI-2 and one substance abuse screening instrument, review available institutional records for relevant background information, and prepare a summary report with diagnostic impressions for the treatment team.
 Review the inmate's institutional file and previous psychological evaluations to identify relevant historical information, conduct an intake interview focusing on his readiness for treatment and current mental status, administer the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) and Addiction Severity Index (ASI), and complete a psychosocial history report that includes recommendations for his admission to the treatment program.
 Conduct a structured clinical interview to assess current psychological functioning and motivation for treatment, review previous psychiatric and substance abuse treatment records, interpret results from two psychological instruments previously administered during his intake screening (MCMI and SASSI), develop a diagnostic profile based on the available data, and draft treatment planning recommendations for quarterly review by the clinical team.
 None of the above.


4.

During your afternoon rounds in the Special Management Unit, correctional officers radio that an inmate in your treatment program is in his cell exhibiting signs of acute psychological distress. When you arrive, you observe the inmate pacing rapidly, speaking incoherently about voices telling him to hurt himself, and showing fresh superficial cuts on his forearm. He has a documented history of psychotic episodes and past suicide attempts. He is becoming increasingly agitated, has begun yelling at you and the officers, and is now picking up items in his cell that could be used as weapons. The situation is escalating quickly, and other inmates in the unit are beginning to react to the commotion. Staff are looking to you for direction on how to proceed.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate crisis response approach in this situation?

 Maintain a calm demeanor and use your clinical skills to assess the immediate risk level, direct security staff to remove potential weapons from access while you position yourself at a safe distance, employ evidence-based de-escalation techniques including speaking in a calm and steady voice to reduce his agitation, utilize cognitive-behavioral crisis intervention strategies to help him regain emotional control, assess his immediate need for psychiatric intervention or medical attention for the self-inflicted wounds, coordinate with medical and security staff to implement appropriate suicide precautions, and document the incident with recommendations for treatment plan modifications. Additionally, prepare to provide consultation and support to correctional staff and other affected inmates after the situation is stabilized.
 Instruct correctional officers to secure the immediate area and prevent the inmate from accessing dangerous items, speak to him in a calm voice while maintaining safe distance, attempt to redirect his attention away from the psychotic content and toward reality-based topics, call for medical staff to assess the cuts on his arm, and work with security to place him on suicide watch while you complete crisis intervention documentation.
 Direct staff to implement institutional emergency protocols for psychiatric emergencies, consult with the inmate from a position of safety to gather information about his current mental state, use clinical skills to determine if he is experiencing a psychotic break that requires immediate psychiatric hospitalization, coordinate with the medical team to address his self-harm injuries, and complete a detailed report recommending increased monitoring and possible program removal.
 Instruct correctional officers to manage the immediate security threat while you assist in calming the other inmates who are reacting to the situation, attempt verbal de-escalation techniques to defuse the inmate's agitation, contact psychiatric staff for consultation about medication needs, and later provide training to the correctional staff about recognizing early warning signs of decompensation in mentally ill offenders.
 None of the above.


5.

Your institution's warden has asked you to address a significant problem: the Reintegration Unit's treatment program is experiencing high rates of disciplinary infractions among participants, and preliminary data suggests that program graduates are not demonstrating reduced institutional misconduct compared to non-participants. The warden wants evidence-based recommendations to improve program effectiveness. Your current program uses a combination of interventions, but there are questions about whether the cognitive-behavioral protocols are being implemented correctly and whether they are appropriate for the specific population of inmates with antisocial personality features and co-occurring substance use disorders.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate research-based approach in this situation?

 Review current peer-reviewed literature on cognitive-behavioral interventions for offenders with antisocial personality disorder and substance abuse issues to identify evidence-based treatment protocols, conduct a comprehensive literature review examining program evaluation studies for similar correctional treatment programs, use the research findings to develop a revised treatment protocol that incorporates best practices for this population, and implement the new evidence-based protocol within the Reintegration Unit while establishing outcome measures to track effectiveness.
 Design and implement a formal research study to evaluate the current treatment program's effectiveness by collecting pre- and post-treatment data on participants' criminal thinking patterns, substance abuse severity, and institutional behavior, analyze the data to identify which program components are associated with positive outcomes and which may need modification, prepare a written report of findings with evidence-based recommendations, and submit the research for publication in a corrections or psychology journal to contribute to the professional literature on treating antisocial offenders in correctional settings.
 Participate in a research team with colleagues from other institutions who are studying cognitive-behavioral treatment outcomes for offenders with antisocial features, assist with collecting data from your program participants for the multi-site study, contribute to analyzing the relationship between treatment dosage and behavioral outcomes, and prepare a literature review on antisocial personality disorder treatment that can be used to inform program modifications at your facility.
 Conduct a thorough review of the existing research literature on treating co-occurring antisocial personality disorder and substance abuse in correctional populations, use the research findings to prepare a detailed treatment protocol that addresses criminal thinking patterns specific to this population, present your evidence-based recommendations to institutional leadership with citations to relevant studies, and utilize the available research to develop specific intervention strategies for managing high-risk behaviors among program participants.
 None of the above.


6.

You have recently been assigned supervisory responsibility for three clinical staff members in the BRAVE program: a doctoral-level psychologist who has five years of correctional experience but limited training in your specific cognitive-behavioral treatment model, a master's-level counselor who is new to correctional work but has strong clinical skills from community mental health experience, and a master's-level social worker who has worked in the institution for three years but has received feedback about inconsistent documentation and treatment planning. All three staff members are responsible for conducting assessments, facilitating groups, and managing caseloads of offenders with serious mental illness and criminal thinking patterns. You need to ensure quality clinical services while supporting each staff member's professional development.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervision and staff development approach in this situation?

 Establish regular individual supervision meetings with each staff member to review their cases and provide guidance on treatment approaches, observe several of their group sessions to provide constructive feedback, review a sample of their clinical documentation to ensure it meets institutional standards and best practices, and offer to mentor the newer staff member in adapting their community-based skills to the correctional environment.
 Implement a comprehensive clinical and administrative supervision structure that includes weekly individual supervision sessions with each staff member tailored to their development needs, conduct systematic reviews and approval of their psychological assessments and treatment plans to ensure compliance with evidence-based practices and professional standards, provide direct clinical training on the cognitive-behavioral treatment model through didactic instruction and co-facilitation opportunities, complete formal performance evaluations that include specific measurable goals for improvement, develop and implement a targeted performance improvement plan for the social worker addressing the documentation deficiencies with clear expectations and timelines, create mentoring opportunities that pair the experienced psychologist with the newer counselor, and provide guidance on professional development activities that will enhance each staff member's career trajectory in correctional psychology.
 Schedule monthly clinical consultation meetings with all three staff members to discuss challenging cases, review and provide feedback on their clinical reports to identify areas needing improvement, provide training sessions on the cognitive-behavioral treatment protocols used in the BRAVE program, and support the staff by offering to co-facilitate some difficult group sessions when they need assistance.
 Meet weekly with the two master's-level clinicians to review their clinical work and provide training on assessment and treatment approaches for the mentally ill offender population, conduct quarterly performance discussions with all three staff to identify professional development goals, assist with reviewing clinical documentation to ensure it meets policy requirements, and provide peer consultation to the doctoral-level psychologist on complex clinical cases.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙