Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12934734-AF-26-20 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 25, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).
 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (263 CBCS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (263 CBCS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   
 


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-09 Human Resources Specialist.
 I HAVE a valid understanding of the basic principles and concepts of 0201 occupational series at the GS-07 level.
 I DO NOT HAVE a valid understanding of the basic principles and concepts of 0201 occupational series at the GS-07 level.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-09 Human Resources Specialist.
 I HAVE 1) at least one year of specialized experiences at the GS-07 level or the equivalent which provided a working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and federal civilian or military personnel programs, 2) experiences in executing personnel programs and Human Resources Information Systems, (as applicable to the Human Resources Specialist and its position description), 3) experienced in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers, 4) experiences in career counseling; completing or editing performance evaluations; and, conducting educational and skill development personnel course programs, 5) competent in merit principles, personnel plans, programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities; and 6) in applying program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals. Experienced in performance management and productivity programs; or, advising on process improvement, best practices, and performance techniques.
 I DO NOT have the experience listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙