Position Title
FFSP ASSOCIATE GENERALIST COUNSELOR
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12830027 Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 04, 2025 to Nov 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Embedded Integrated Prevention Coordinator position. Failure to respond to all questions will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.




Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a master's degree or doctorate in Social Work, Marriage and Family Therapy, Counseling, Clinical Psychology, or related field from an accredited institution?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently registered with the Board of Behavioral Sciences in the state of California as an Associate Marriage and Family Therapist, Associate Social Worker, or Associate Professional Clinical Counselor?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please choose the response below that best describes your professional experience with clinical counseling involving domestic violence and child abuse.
 I currently hold a therapist/counselor position that provides general counseling and family violence case management /treatment services.
 I have held a therapist/counselor position that provided general counseling and family violence case management /treatment services.
 I have held a therapist/counselor position that provided general clinical counseling and case management/treatment services with minimal exposure to domestic violence or child abuse.
 I have never had a therapist/counselor position that provided general counseling and family violence case management /treatment services.


4.
Please choose the response below that best describes the number of hours you have accrued towards your licensure.
 I have accrued 1000+ hours towards my licensure.
 I have accrued 500-1000 hours towards my licensure.
 I have accrued 1-500 hours towards my licensure.
 I have accrued 0 hours towards my licensure.


5.
Please choose the response below that best describes your clinical documentation experience.
 I have more than one (1) year of experience documenting Clinical Assessments, DSM 5 Diagnosis and Clinical Progress Notes in an Electronic Health Record System and/or Paper Chart.
 I have more less one (1) year of experience documenting Clinical Assessments, DSM 5 Diagnosis and Clinical Progress Notes in an Electronic Health Record System and/or Paper
 I have experience writing Clinical Progress Notes in Electronic Health System and/or Paper Chart.
 I do not have any experience with clinical documentation as described above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙