Position Title
Field Unit Local Hiring Authority (FUL) Housing Management Specialist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-YELL-26-13030360-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority- Residency
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation. If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Yellowstone National Park, WY is defined as the following counties: MT: Gallatin, Park. WY: Park, Sublette, Teton. ID: Fremont, from the Yellowstone National Park, located at 2 Officers Row, Yellowstone National Park Headquarters, Yellowstone National Park, WY 82190. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If you select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Housing Management Specialist, GS-1173-7/9.


Minimum Qualifications Requirements for the Housing Management Specialist GS-7 position


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Housing Management Specialist work at the GS-07 level or equivalent.

Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Examples include but are not limited to: Coordinating all check-ins and check-outs necessary to monitor occupancy and vacancies of occupants in housing units; assist with developing, evaluating, and making recommendations to management on plans and program management strategies concerning housing policy, service guidelines, and departmental requirements; receiving and processing tenant complaints or requests for repair or maintenance.
 I have successfully completed at least one full year of graduate education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities in a related field such as business administration, economics, accounting, finance, governmental budgeting, or public administration.
 I have successfully completed a combination of education and experience (as listed in items A and B, above).
 I do not meet the requirements above.


Minimum Qualifications Requirements for the Housing Management Specialist GS-9 position


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Housing Management Specialist work at the GS-9 level or equivalent.

Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Examples include but are not limited to: Use knowledge of spreadsheets or databases to manage housing inventory and tenant assignment; assist in managing a budget to account for income and expenditures, and analyze spending to determine trends; implement housing policies to ensure legal compliance and efficient use of housing facilities; handle difficult or unhappy tenants; and provide input for the development of housing plans, directives, and other administrative guides.
 I have successfully completed at least a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities in a related field such as business administration, economics, accounting, finance, governmental budgeting, or public administration.
 I have successfully completed a combination of education and experience (as listed in items A and B, above).
 I do not meet the requirements above.


Verification Statement


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙