Position Title
Actuary (Employee Plans) - 12 Month Register
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12977684A-TEX-1510-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Mar 29, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


4.
ICTAP Candidate - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) or equivalent personnel action form.
 
For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


6.
U.S. Citizen Candidate - Are you a U.S. citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AZ7887) 7350 W Cam San Xavier, Glendale, AZ
 AB. (AZ6886) 1818 E Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ
 AI. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AJ. (CA7023) 9350 Flair Dr, El Monte, CA
 AK. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AL. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AM. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AN. (CA7395) 801 Civic Center Dr, Santa Ana, CA
 AO. (CA7816) 21040 Califa St, Woodland Hills, CA
 AP. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 AQ. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 AR. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 AS. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 AT. (FL3132) 201 S Orange Ave, Orlando, FL
 AU. (FL2437) 1248 N University Dr, Plantation, FL
 AV. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 AW. (GA2004) 2888 Woodcock Blvd, Atlanta, GA
 AX. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 AY. (IL2337) 2001 Butterfield Rd, Downers Grove, IL
 AZ. (IL2558) 5100 River Rd, Schiller Park, IL
 BA. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BB. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 BC. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 BD. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 BE. (MA0131) 15 New Sudbury St, Boston, MA
 BF. (MA6049) 103 Commercial St, Brockton, MA
 B. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 C. (MI2181) 1270 Pontiac Rd, Pontiac, MI
 D. (MN1675) 1550 American Blvd E, Bloomington, MN
 E. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 F. (MO1833) 1122 Town and Country, Chesterfield, MO
 G. (MO2008) 2850 NE Independence, Lees Summit, MO
 H. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 I. (NJ4721) 955 S Springfield Ave, Springfield, NJ
 J. (NY7501) 999 Stewart Ave, Bethpage, NY
 K. (NY7288) 2 Metrotech Center, Brooklyn, NY
 L. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 M. (NY0282) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY
 N. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 O. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 P. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 Q. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 R. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 S. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 T. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 U. (TX2835) 12309 N Mopac Expwy, Austin, TX
 V. (TX0284) 1100 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 W. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 X. (TX3077) 5555 N Beach St, Fort Worth, TX
 Y. (TX0298) 1919 Smith, Houston, TX
 Z. (TX2298) 12941 I-45 N, Houston, TX
 AA. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AC. (UT1434) 105 23rd St, Ogden, UT
 AD. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AE. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AF. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AG. (WA8075) 1301 A St, Tacoma, WA
 AH. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


2.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRS will be subject to a tax check. You can "Get Your Tax Record" at http://www.irs.gov/ (https://www.irs.gov/individuals/get-transcript) and check the status of your account, balance owed, payment history, make a payment, or review answers to tax questions. Applicants not in compliance will be determined unsuitable for employment with IRS. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRS.

Please select the response that best describes your compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. You will be subject to a tax check that will verify your response to this question.
 I am currently compliant with all Federal Tax requirements. I have filed all tax returns, and, if applicable, paid any balance that was due.
 I currently have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have made the necessary arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 I have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have NOT made any arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 None of the above.


3.
The following question is regarding your Selective Service status. If you are a male born after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, civil service employment law (5 U.S.C. 3328) requires that you must be registered with the Selective Service System, unless you meet certain exemptions under Selective Service law. If you are required to register but knowingly and willfully fail to do so, you are ineligible for appointment by executive agencies of the Federal Government (5 CFR 300.704). Visit http://www.sss.gov/ for additional information.
 I certify that I have registered for Selective Service.
 I have not registered for Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption or served in the military continuously from age 18 to age 26.
 I have not reached my 18th birthday and understand I am required by law to register at that time.
 I was required to register for Selective Service and did not register. I do not have an approved exemption, and I have not served in the military.
 I was born female or born before January 1, 1960, and I am not required to register by law


4.
If you are a current Federal employee, by what agency and organization are you employed?
Treasury - (BEP) Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Treasury - (DO) Departmental Offices
Treasury - (FinCEN) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Treasury - (FS) Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Treasury - IRS
Treasury - IRS Office of the Chief Counsel
Treasury - (MINT) United States Mint
Treasury - (OCC) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Treasury - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Treasury - (SIGTARP) Special Inspector General for TARP
Treasury - (TIGTA) Treasury Inspector General for Tax Admin
Treasury - (TTB) Alcohol & Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
AFRH - Armed Forces Retirement Home
DHS - (USSS) United States Secret Service
DOJ - (ATF) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
FHFA - (OIG) Office of the Inspector General
FMSHRC - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
GAO - Government Accountability Office
HUD - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
USDA - (FNS) Food and Nutrition Service
USDA - (OCIO) International Technology Services
USOGE - (OGE) Office of Government Ethics
Veterans Affairs - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Other
Not Applicable


5.
If you selected "Other", please enter the agency and organization.


6.
If you are a current Federal employee, what is your duty station? [City, State]


7.
If you are a Federal employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, competitive service
 Career-conditional Appointment, competitive service
 Career Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Permanent Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Other Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Excepted Service Appointment (other than listed)
 Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
 Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 Not Applicable


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. For example: GS-05, IR-02, WG-04.


10.
Are you a current or former Federal employee with reinstatement eligibility?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


11.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No


12.

Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) within the past 5 years from the federal government, this is also known as a buyout?

If "Yes", you must provide a copy of your separation SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) that documents the separation incentive/buyout. If you received a separation incentive and re-employed within 5 years following the effective date of
separation you will be required to repay the entire amount of the buyout (including all deductions for taxes) to your former agency. I understand this requirement applies to any employment, of any length, in any entity of the Federal Government.
Depending on the Public Law code, the separation incentive was awarded under, it may require the repayment be made prior to the employee's first day of employment or allow for the repayment be made over an extended period of time.

 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


13.
Regarding the effectiveness of our recruitment strategies; how did you first hear about this job?
Automated USAJOBS saved search notification
Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc.)
Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)
IRS Careers Website
Referred by an IRS employee
Attended a recruitment event Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet and Greet, Meetup, etc.
IRS Veterans Program Office
School/University announcement/career counselor
Organizational third party referral diversity or community organization, church, unemployment office, etc.
Newspaper print or online
Radio
Transit/Bus Advertisement
Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites
Banner Advertisement-Movie Theater Websites
IRS Post Card Mailing
Classified Advertisement Website, Craigslist, Angies List, etc.
IRS/FNS Hiring Event
Other
I prefer not to answer


14.
If you answered "Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc." in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the job board or search agent other than USAJOBS you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the Social Media platform you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Attended a recruitment event (Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet & Greet, Meetup, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name and state of the recruiting event.

If you answered "School/University announcement/career counselor" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the school/university of the announcement where you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Third party referral, such as diversity or community organization, or employment office (Federal, state or local)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the third party referral and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Newspaper (print/online)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the newspaper and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Radio" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the radio station and state you heard the advertisement.

If you answered "Transit/Bus Advertisement" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the city and state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Movie Theater Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Classified Advertisement Website (Craigslist, Angie's List, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the website, city and state.

If you answered "Other" in the previous question, please specify in the box below.


15.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former noncareer SES appointee, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under Limited Term SES or Limited Emergency SES appointment in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


16.
If yes, identify the position held, the employing agency/organization, and the dates of the appointment. Please provide SF-50s showing your political appointment and, if applicable, resignation/termination SF-50.


17.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 Yes
 No


18.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


19.
Applicants must meet the minimum age requirements for this position. Please indicate the option which best describes your current status. If you are 16 or 17 years of age, you MUST submit documentation of graduation from high school (or equivalent); OR completion of a formal vocational training program; OR statement from school authorities agreeing with your decision to pursue employment rather than continuing your education.
 I am 18 years of age or older.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and have graduated from high school or have been awarded a certificate equivalent to graduating from high school.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and have completed a formal vocational training program.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and have a statement from school authorities agreeing with my decision to pursue employment rather than continuing my education.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and am currently enrolled in high school (a student).
 I am under 16 years of age.


20.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:
BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL GRADES: You must have a bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. OR

A combination of education and experience that includes BOTH of the following requirements: (1) Technical work experience in actuarial support work or in mathematics, AND (2) Completion of a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. 
 
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14: You must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for an actuary.
To be qualifying, your experience must include
Analyzing and applying relevant laws, regulations, published rulings, and other precedents to novel situations to arrive at sound, well-reasoned decisions
Performing accounting firm or an actuarial consulting work where you analyzed employee plans and completed valuations to advise clients on the required funding contribution and deductible limits regarding employee plans.
Delivering presentations and/or instruction on actuarial requirements for employee plans to professionals within the actuarial community.
Performing pension work, analyzing difficult and complex matters related to issues and requests for rulings pertaining to the requirements under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), such as minimum funding standards, plan mergers and changes of actuarial funding methods.
Preparing and/or reviewing pension valuation reports, Form 5500 Schedules SB or MB.
 
 


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL GRADES:
You must have a bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. OR

A combination of education and experience that includes BOTH of the following requirements: (1) Technical work experience in actuarial support work or in mathematics, AND (2) Completion of a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.

Please tell us which is true about your education and/or experience.
 I completed a bachelor's degree and experience as described above.
 I have a combination of education, experience and professional associateship as described above.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least one-year specialized experience analyzing and applying relevant laws, regulations, published rulings, and other precedents to novel situations to arrive at sound, well-reasoned decisions?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least one-year specialized experience performing accounting firm or an actuarial consulting work where you analyzed employee plans and completed valuations to advise clients on the required funding contribution and deductible limits regarding employee plans?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least one-year specialized experience delivering presentations and/or instruction on actuarial requirements for employee plans to professionals within the actuarial community?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have at least one-year specialized experience performing pension work, analyzing difficult and complex matters related to issues and requests for rulings pertaining to the requirements under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), such as minimum funding standards, plan mergers and changes of actuarial funding methods?
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have at least one-year specialized experience preparing and/or reviewing pension valuation reports, Form 5500 Schedules SB or MB?
 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙