Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12910647-26-JMB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents



1.
To be eligible for this position at the GS-11 level you must meet one of the following:
Experience: Possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to:
 
Experience with VA computer data bases such as VISTA, CPRS.
Knowledge of contracting processes, equipment procurement processes and fee agreements.  COR Level 1 preferred.  
Experience with timekeeping process and protocols.
Administrative support of a clinical service. 
Evaluate administrative activities and makes recommendation for program improvement.
OR
Education: Possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR possess a LL.M, if related. You must provide a copy of your transcript for education to be credited.

OR
Combination of education and experience: Possess a combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience.  You must provide a copy of your transcript for education to be credited.

 I possess 1 year of Specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR possess a LL.M, if related.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education.
 I do NOT possess the specialized experience or education requirements.


2.
I understand that I must provide SF-50(s) - Notification of Personnel Action, to verify my eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement AND to verify that I possess the time-in-grade requirements for the position. This means that you will most likely need to submit at least 2 SF 50s.  The following information is provided to assist applicants in the submission of appropriate SF-50s to verify eligibility and time-in-grade requirements:

1. To verify your eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. NOTE: If you are CTAP eligible you must provide a copy of your separation SF 50.
AND
2. To verify you meet Time-in Grade requirements an SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must also be submitted with your application materials. This could be an SF 50 that shows a Within Grade or Step increase at your highest grade held. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.   Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's to document time-in-grade include:  
- Within grade increases at the highest grade held;
or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old;
or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old

 I acknowledge that I have read the above information regarding SF-50 documentation requirements and understand that I must submit appropriate documentation to verify both eligibility and time-in-grade requirements. This includes submission of my most-recent SF-50 and any additional SF-50s, as identified above, that may be necessary to support my time-in-grade eligibility.
 I have NOT read the above information regarding SF-50 documentation requirements, but I understand that I am still responsible for providing appropriate documentation to verify both eligibility and time-in-grade requirements even if I have elected not to read this information.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - Transcripts MUST be provided to verify education if using education for qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙