Position Title
Youth Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13030969 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response which best describes your qualifications.
 I have a master's or higher degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education AND I have 1 or more years of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education AND I have 3 or more years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major/24 higher-level semester hours appropriate to the position plus appropriate experience or additional course work) that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education and training related to this position?
 Master's or higher degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education.
 Bachelor's degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education.
 Associate degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education.
 Degree in a field other than those listed above.
 Less than the above.


3.
How much experience do you have managing and designing complex child & youth development programs (e.g., programs comprised of multiple areas such as education, safety, training, maintenance, etc.)?
 3 or more years.
 2 - 3 years.
 1 - 2 years.
 Less than 1 year.


4.
How much experience do you have with financial management, budgeting, and/or purchasing?
 3 or more years.
 1 - 3 years.
 1 - 11 months.
 No experience.


5.
How much supervisory experience do you have?
 10 or more years.
 5 - 10 years.
 1 - 5 years.
 Less than 1 year.


6.
Select the response that best describes your experience leading or managing in a youth program.
 Leading or managing in a youth program with 200 or more children/youth in a DOD setting.
 Leading or managing in a youth program with 200 or more children/youth.
 Leading or managing in a youth program with 101-199 children/youth in a DOD setting.
 Leading or managing in a youth program with 101-199 children/youth.
 Leading or managing in a youth program with 1-100 children/youth.
 Limited or no experience leading or managing in a youth program.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙