Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-1539-BAND-26-12979202-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Budget Analyst, GS-0560-11. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your responses. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answers you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified, or you may be placed in a lower quality category.


Specialized Experience


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for Budget Analyst, GS-0560-11. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet the requirements of this question, you will be rated ineligible.

 I have one year of specialized experience at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). This experience must include all of: (1) Experience with the principles and objectives of Government budget formulation and required by administration in order to perform a variety of substantive budget duties; (2) experience with governmental accounting, financial controls, financial reporting direction and procedures, and methods for cost analysis; (3) demonstrates and skills with budget structure, including budget line items, budget activities, appropriations, and limitations in order to be able to ensure funds are properly budgeted and planned within legal and administrative constraints.
 I have 3 years of higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field directly related to the position to be filled. This education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. You must provide a transcript.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described above and education as described above which total at 100%. For example, 6 months of specialized experience (50% of the specialized experience) and two and a half years (45 credits) of graduate education (50% of the education) would qualify an applicant for this position. Only graduate education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (i.e. beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. PLEASE NOTE: You must include a copy of your college transcripts when qualifying based on education. Failure to include this documentation will make you ineligible for this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements stated above.


COMPETENCY ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE SECTION: THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER SECTION. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙