Position Title
Supervisory Sanctions Investigator
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12917677 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For GS-15, you must have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must demonstrate ALL of the following:
Coordinating civil investigations and preparing documents to support administrative actions that are governed by regulations concerning U.S. economic sanctions and embargo programs based on delegated Presidential authority; AND
Applying administrative laws, including procedures, regulations, guidelines, and precedents to designation and petitions cases and the development of targets for designation or delisting; AND
Analyzing issues, developing findings, and determining conclusions by applying regulatory requirements to prepare evidentiary documents; AND
Conducting evaluations, examinations, or other fact finding studies to obtain or verify information (e.g., research of administrative, program, or legal issues and application to facts); AND
Leading, managing, administrating, and supervising principles, policies, practices and methods; leadership experience that reflects effective planning, developing, administering, managing section programs, and coordinating a diverse team.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Will you be available to travel to foreign locations, some of which may involve hazardous duty stations?
 Yes
 No


3.
Choose the statement below that best describes your experience influencing others while building consensus.
 When building support for my ideas, I routinely seek input from my affected employees or team members to give them a sense of ownership in the decision-making process and thereby have them more willing to accept my opinion.
 When influencing others to adopt my ideas, I encourage candid, professional discussion to flesh out the idea and uncover potential risks or improvements.
 As a supervisor or team leader my job is to make decisions. Delaying decisions, in order to build consensus, is a sign of weakness.
 I have no experience in this area.


4.
Select all of the statements that best describe your leadership experience to implement change in your office.
 A. I communicate the vision clearly and link the steps in the process to the overall vision.
 B. I create a sense of urgency to help spark the initial motivation to get things moving.
 C. I convince people that change is necessary and build coalitions with key individuals.
 D. I create and identify short term wins in route to the overall vision to keep the team motivated and focused.
 E. I have not implemented any changes.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your experience to manage a staff or team and other resources within a large, multi-disciplined organization, including experience to set program goals, prepare budgets, and establish strategies in support of agency missions.
 I have extensive practical experience in the leadership and management of a, multi-disciplined organization, staff or team, and in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.
 I have limited experience in the management of an organization, staff, or team, accumulated primarily in an acting or detail capacity and with limited responsibility for resource management or staff.
 I have some experience in leading teams or managing projects in support of specific agency objectives, but without general responsibility for staff or other resources.
 I have no experience in the management of a large, multi-disciplined organization or in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.


6.
From the following list, select all of the supervisory duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 C. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 D. Resolved office conflicts through mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 E. Coached employees on performance issues.
 F. None of the above


7.
Please select from the list below the reasons for which you conducted assessments, surveys, evaluations and studies of proposed legislation, regulations, policies, or initiatives.
 A. To manage programs, including budget and human resources.
 B. To implement programs.
 C. To make recommendations to improve programs/operations.
 D. To decide on continuation or termination of programs.
 E. To make recommendations to senior agency officials.
 F. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives.
 G. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program.
 H. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency.
 I. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials).
 J. None of the above


8.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience in evaluating whether certain facts and evidence trigger regulations, executive orders, and statutes related to economic sanctions programs.
 I have substantial experience evaluating targets to determine if they meet the legal criteria set forth in U.S. regulations, executive orders and statutes to determine an appropriate result and have provided high-level explanation of these results to my supervisors.
 I have experience evaluating targets to determine if they meet the legal criteria set forth in U.S. regulations, executive orders and statutes to determine an appropriate result with an advanced senior level working knowledge on these issues.
 I have provided support to team members in their evaluation of targets to determine if they meet the legal criteria set forth in U.S. regulations, executive orders and statutes to determine an appropriate result, and a basic working knowledge on these issues.
 I have no experience in applying facts to U.S. regulations, executive orders, and statutes.


9.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience with regard to the development and execution of economic sanctions actions.
 Led research and preparation of the record, using classified information, for more than one successful U.S. or U.N. targeted economic sanctions action.
 Led research and preparation of the record for more than one successful U.S. or U.N. targeted economic sanctions action.
 Led research and preparation of the record for at least one successful U.S. or U.N. targeted economic sanctions action.
 Contributed to research and preparation of the record for at least one successful U.S. or U.N. targeted economic sanctions action.
 Contributed to research and preparation of the record for a U.S. or U.N. targeted economic sanctions action.
 I have no experience with the development or execution of U.S. or U.N. economic sanctions actions.


10.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience with regard to the implementation and administration of economic sanctions programs.
 I have knowledge of U.S. economic sanctions programs as demonstrated by my work experience on these issues.
 I have no knowledge of U.S. economic sanctions programs.


11.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience in conducting research and developing assessments in the areas of national security, foreign policy, intelligence, or economic sanctions.
 Conducted research and prepared written analyses in one or more of these areas using open sources and databases.
 Conducted research and prepared written analyses in one or more of these areas using classified information.
 Completed a major policy or factual assessment in one or more of these areas using classified information and briefed senior officials on the results of the assessment.
 Participated as an agency representative and subject matter expert in an inter-agency working group that established new policy in one of these areas.
 Led a team conducting a major investigation, assessment, or initiative on an issue in one of these areas which resulted in substantial changes in policy.
 No experience in conducting research and developing assessments in the areas of U.S. national security, foreign policy, intelligence, or economic sanctions.


12.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience with regard to national security, foreign policy, or intelligence issues:
 I have knowledge of national security, foreign or intelligence policy as demonstrated by my work experience on these issues.
 I have no knowledge of U.S. national security, foreign or intelligence policy.


13.
From the choices below, please check areas in which you have specific experience.
 A. Investigations
 B. The financing, structure and logistics of terrorist groups
 C. Rogue states (i.e., Venezuela, Libya), control structures, commercial networks, commercial fronts and procurement methods
 D. National Security policy and decision making
 E. U.S. foreign or national security policy in South America
 F. U.S. foreign or national security policy in Africa
 G. Corrupt actors and their commercial and logistical networks
 H. Atrocities and Human Rights violations
 I. Forensic accounting
 J. International banking and finance
 K. Law
 L. The United Nations Security Council
 M. Relevant sanctions laws and Executive Orders
 N. None of the above


14.
I have evaluated the analytical products and services of others to meet the quality standards of an organization (e.g., management or peer review). This includes making suggestions to improve this material and being able to articulate clearly the problems and concerns about the product as well as suggestions for remedies where appropriate.
 As a major job responsibility, evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services on public policy issues related to economic sanctions and embargo programs for the preparation of evidentiary materials that demonstrated compliance with established E.O designation standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Was responsible for suggesting revisions to improve content and organization of this material and for ensuring its consistency with standards. This experience was in an organization devoted to the provision of analytical public policy products and services directed at high-level decision makers.
 Routinely evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services on issues related to economic sanctions and embargo programs for compliance with established E.O designation standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Offered suggestions to improve material. This experience was in an organization devoted to the provision of analytical products and services directed at decision makers.
 Occasionally evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services on issues related to economic sanctions and embargo programs for compliance with established E.O designation standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material.
 None of the above.


15.
Which of the following best reflects your experience analyzing issues and identifying appropriate or innovative solutions?
 I have analyzed issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision.
 I have assisted others in the analysis of issues and identification of appropriate solutions.
 I have participated on a team that analyzed issues and identified appropriate solutions.
 I have independently analyzed issues and identified appropriate solutions.
 I have led others charged with the analysis of issues and identification of appropriate solutions.
 I have no work experience analyzing issues and identifying appropriate solutions.


16.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience in the technical analysis of information to solve problems, make recommendations, associate findings with courses of action, etc.
 I have no knowledge of or experience in this activity.
 I have performed this activity in routine work situations (i.e., situations calling for a straightforward application of standard operating procedures.)
 I have performed this activity in situations (i.e., requiring greater use of judgment, and or the integration or modification of existing procedures.)
 I have performed this activity in work situations requiring activities such as one or more of the following: the evaluation of events, objects, conditions or processes, the formulation of judgments of the value or worth of events, objects, conditions or processes, the development of recommendations for improvement, and or the development of new policies, guidelines, principles or procedures.
 I have supervised, monitored and or trained others in this activity.


17.
Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material.
 A. I have written analytical products for internal audiences.
 B. I have written analytical products for external audiences.
 C. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience.
 D. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience.
 E. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience.
 F. I have prepared and presented issue papers or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups or management officials at all levels.
 G. I have reviewed and edited products for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 H. None of the above.


18.
I have written a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well organized products on issues related to economic sanctions and embargo programs in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: decision memos, research analyses, briefing papers, analyses of options, evaluation of legislative proposals, and articles covering a public policy issue for a major national or trade publication.
 As a principal job responsibility, wrote a variety of authoritative analytical products assessing and controversial public policy issues of national or international significance to advise senior decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of experience. These products were related to national security, sanctions, and international regulatory matters and included the full range of products described above.
 Routinely wrote a variety of analytical products assessing controversial public policy issues of national or international significance for publication or dissemination to decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of experience. These products were related to national security, sanctions, and international regulatory matters and included most of the products described above.
 Frequently wrote a variety of analytical products assessing controversial public policy issues related to national security, sanctions, and international regulatory matters for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of experience. These products included at least three of the examples described above.
 None of the above.


19.
Choose the statement below that best describes your experience building coalitions and partnerships.
 I routinely engage and recruit the support of external agencies to address common goals as a force multiplier to overcome resource deficiencies.
 I engage with other US government enforcement agencies within my area of responsibility for the purpose of de-conflicting investigations and professional liaison.
 I have worked with personnel from my Public Information and Legislative Affairs offices to convey accomplishments and information regarding US sanctions.
 I have no experience in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙