Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13043012K-TSN-GS-0343-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7226) 3211 S Northpointe Dr, Fresno, CA
 F. (CA0281)1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 G. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 H. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 I. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 J. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 K. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 L. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 M. (MD0428) 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 N. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 O. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 P. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 Q. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 R. (NY6466) 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 U. (OR6728) 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 V. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 W. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 X. (PR4066) CARR 28 KM 2.0, Bayamon, PR
 Y. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 Z. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AA. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AB. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 AC. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 AD. (UT1428) 1973 N Rulon White, Ogden, UT
 B. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 C. (VA0088) 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 D. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 E. (WV0273) 1250 Edwin Miller Blv, Martinsburg, WV


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-13:
To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 level must include the following:
Analyzing and evaluating methods and techniques for resolving defined problems or issues and resolving issues within functional programs, operations and processes.
Utilizing project management tools and techniques to plan, schedule, and conduct multiple projects and studies simultaneously.
Utilizing pertinent program laws, regulations, policies and precedents to develop new or modified guidelines, to analyze impact of changes and make recommendations.
Preparing analyses and estimating resource needs through budgeting methods and techniques.
Defining new program operations in consideration of internal and external dynamics between the business units and overall organization.
Developing guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) relative to the function, and coordinated when appropriate with other units to update the Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
Utilizing oral and written communication techniques to present findings, deliver briefings, guide others to accepting findings and recommendations, and negotiate solutions to disputed recommendations.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
Specialized Experience GS-13: Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience., as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience, as described above.


2.
How have you contributed to the workplace environment?
 A. Served as a class instructor.
 B. Served as an On-the-Job Instructor (OJI) or coach.
 C. Conducted workshops/presentations.
 D. Led a project or task team.
 E. None of the above.


3.
Which of the following describes your work place experiences?
 A. Researched issues to create presentations or job aids to provide technical support.
 B. Served as a technical expert and independently completed research to provide technical support for a project.
 C. Conducted presentations to address technical issues.
 D. Provided clarification to others on existing policy, guidelines and procedures.
 E. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following best characterizes your experience in fostering and maintaining positive work relationships?
 Elevated issues and provided recommendations for resolution to management.
 Identified issues and solicited workgroup input for resolution.
 Provided input on issues identified by the workgroup.
 Elevated issues to management for resolution.
 None of the above.


5.
Which of the following describes your technical expertise in resolving problems?
 A. Identified Internal Revenue Manual (IRM), procedural, or policy guidance discrepancies and provided recommendations, which have been implemented.
 B. Resolved issues with functionally specific impact.
 C. Resolved issues with cross-functional impact.
 D. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for management and program matters.
 E. None of the above.


6.
What best describes the steps you have taken to evaluate a work process?
 Monitored operational data and evaluated the progress to identify impacts (e.g., resources, inventory, customers, systems, etc.) and provided recommendations for improvement.
 Performed case or product reviews, analyzed related data, and provided recommendations for improvement.
 Performed case or product reviews.
 None of the above.


7.
For which of the following internal or external groups have you performed as a facilitator?
 A. Employees.
 B. Other Business Operating Divisions (BOD) (e.g. SBSE, W&I, etc.).
 C. Cross-functional teams.
 D. Management.
 E. Executives.
 F. None of the above.


8.
Which of the following software programs or tools have you used to perform work activities?
 A. Used PowerPoint to create a presentation.
 B. Used Excel to create a spreadsheet.
 C. Used Excel to generate charts or pivot tables.
 D. Used Word to create a report.
 E. Used website content management software to post content on IRS.gov.
 F. Used virtual meeting software (e.g. CENTRA, LiveMeeting, Office Communicator) to lead a team meeting.
 G. None of the above.


9.
Which best describes how you manage work priorities?
 Set my work priorities independently and assisted others in setting their work priorities.
 Set my work priorities independently.
 Set my work priorities with guidance.
 My supervisor or lead has set my work priorities.
 None of the above.


10.
How have you contributed to the workplace environment?
 A. Served as a lead class instructor or led train-the-trainer instruction.
 B. Served as an On-the-Job Instructor (OJI) or coach.
 C. Conducted workshops/presentations.
 D. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME).
 E. Developed training materials, job aids or Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).
 F. None of the above.


11.
Which of the following describes your work place experiences?
 A. Independently researched issues to create presentations or job aids to provide technical support to senior management or executives.
 B. Conducted presentations to address technical issues for management or executives.
 C. Provided clarification to management or executives on existing policy, guidelines and procedures.
 D. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following best characterizes your experience in fostering and maintaining positive work relationships?
 Independently identified issues and solicited workgroup input for resolution.
 Independently provided input on issues identified by the workgroup.
 Elevated issues and provided recommendations for resolution to management.
 None of the above.


13.
What steps have you taken to evaluate a work process?
 A. Monitored operational data and evaluated the progress to identify impacts (e.g., resources, inventory, customers, systems, etc.) and provide recommendations for improvement.
 B. Monitored programs and evaluated the progress to identify impacts (e.g., resources, inventory, customers, systems, etc.) and provide recommendations for improvement.
 C. Analyzed data related to case or product reviews and provided recommendations for improvement.
 D. Performed case or product reviews.
 E. Served on a team tasked with evaluating a work process or conducting an operational review.
 F. None of the above.


14.
Which of the following describes your experience with written communication?
 A. Wrote technical training materials or procedures.
 B. Developed templates or official IRS responses, letters, notices, or publications to be sent externally (e.g., taxpayers, congressional correspondence).
 C. Wrote executive summaries for management or executives.
 D. Wrote briefings, business cases, or white papers for senior management.
 E. Assisted others in revising IRM policies and procedures that have been submitted for approval by all appropriate functions.
 F. Wrote items for publications (e.g., newsletter, webpage, SERP, etc.).
 G. None of the above.


15.
Which of the following describes your experience with verbal communication?
 A. Led a technical conference call or in-person meeting for senior analysts or managers.
 B. Conducted a briefing for senior management or executives.
 C. Negotiated through difficult or controversial customer issues.
 D. Gained buy-in from various stakeholders (e.g., customers, contractors, senior management, executives, etc.).
 E. None of the above.


16.
Which best describes your level of data analysis experience?
 Gathered and analyzed data from multiple sources, prepared a formal report, and developed recommendations that were implemented.
 Gathered and analyzed data from multiple sources, prepared a formal report, and developed recommendations.
 Gathered and analyzed data from multiple sources and suggested recommendations based on findings.
 Gathered and analyzed data.
 None of the above.


17.
I have identified and submitted best practices that were implemented.
 Yes.
 No.


18.
Which best describes how you manage work priorities?
 Independently set my work priorities and the work priorities of others.
 Set my work priorities independently and assisted others in setting their work priorities.
 Set my work priorities independently.
 Set my work priorities with guidance.
 None of the above.


19.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙