Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-13014582-AF-26-239-C Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area Of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Air National Guard within the 180th Fighter Wing?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E6 Promotable through E7?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess the experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include:
Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements.
Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans.
Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system.
Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance.
Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action.
Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods.
Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities.
Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals.
Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections.
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Utilizes a comprehensive knowledge and ability to interpret Air Force Instructions, Technical Orders, engineering drawings, product specifications, Air Force Occupational and Health (AFOSH) and environmental standards, public law, and locally developed policy. Evaluates and assesses complex systems, subsystems, integrated systems/subsystems, or components for conformance to applicable technical data, engineering drawings, standards and specifications. Evaluates, conducts reviews, activity inspections and management compliance of all maintenance activities to include the logistics maintenance support functional areas such as production, programs and mobility, maintenance training, plans, scheduling and documentation and data base management as directed by the Maintenance Group Commander. Identifies production problems, excessive overtime, discipline, housekeeping and technical discrepancies and attempts to identify the underlying cause for the deficiencies.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙