Position Title
Supervisory Government Information Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
331-26-3040849-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Government Information Specialist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA).

The following section is used to determine your job related experience and/or education. Your education and/or experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.

DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


1.
Time-in-Grade (GS-09): I am a current federal employee in a permanent career/career conditional appointment, and I have at least one (1) year (time-in-grade) or 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or equivalent. (Submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I am a current federal employee and I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 No, I am current federal employee and I do not have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level, or higher .
 I am not a current federal employee and I am applying using VEOA eligibility.


Specialized Experience: To qualify at the GS-09 level, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7). Specialized Experience is defined as experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and ability to perform at the journeyman level of this position with little to no training or supervision. Specialized experience may be described as:
 Experience utilizing management techniques, methods, theories, principles, and labor relations concepts.
 Experience allocating and managing  personnel, equipment, and workspace to achieve program objectives.
 Experience applying regulations, other official guidance and principles, to include processes and procedures.
 Experience overseeing the planning, development and implementation of the technical aspects of programs specific to the position being filled.
 Experience in effective oral communication, written communication, and in the use of computer software.


2.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience which qualifies you for the Supervisory Government Information Specialist, GS-0308-09 grade level?
 I have one year of specialized experience as described above, equivalent to at least the GS-07 level or pay band in the Federal service to qualify at the GS-09.
 I have been awarded a master's or equivalent graduate degree required to qualify at the GS-09 level with: a master's degree in quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-09 grade level position. NOTE: Your application must include an official copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information if this response is selected.
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, or C above. Therefore, I am not eligible to be considered for this GS-09 position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙