Position Title
Materials Examiner & Identifier
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-13022069-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of the position require the incumbent to obtain and maintain a valid forklift operator's license. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a forklift operator's license to comply with the requirement?


 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 45lbs and over in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a Materials Examiner & Identifier position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform a Materials Examiner & Identifier duties without more than normal supervision.
 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Materials Examiner and Identifier tasks. I am skilled in examining and classifying highly specialized, hazardous, or sensitive items lacking proper documentation; conducting authoritative searches of contract specifications, blueprints, and schematics to make final acceptance or rejection determinations; and assigning condition codes to complex weapon system materials. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of Materials Examiner and Identifier tasks. I am skilled in examining, identifying, and disposing of complex categories of materials and equipment; utilizing standard precision measuring instruments (e.g., micrometers, multimeters) to verify dimensional characteristics; and independently laying out storage space and tracking inventory using automated warehouse systems. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common Materials Examiner and Identifier tasks. I can uncrate receipts, verify the identity, quantity, and functional condition of incoming materials, utilize manual records and automated systems to store and retrieve standard stock items, and operate material handling equipment such as forklifts. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple, entry-level receiving and warehouse support duties. I can use basic hand tools (such as crowbars, band cutters, and screwdrivers) to open crates under direct instruction, assist with moving standard materials using manual dollies or pallet jacks, and I have received basic classroom or hands-on training regarding warehouse safety and material handling
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙