Position Title
Supervisory Police Officer
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12999212-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
When the Bureau of Engraving and Printing completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized Experience for the TR-13, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the TR-12/GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

- Experience in police administration, organization, techniques, practices, policies, functions and programs in order to implement policies and direct the management of the overall police operations for an organization; AND
-Experience coordinating special police operations which includes acting as a liaison with other law enforcement personnel, developing special operation plans for high valued asset movements, and acting on specific threats to a facility or installation; AND
-Experience ensuring compliance in day to day operations with established security criteria prescribed for interior and exterior protection programs; such as Federal, State, and local laws, internal and external rules, regulations, and directives, police manuals, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Federal Law Enforcement Training Accreditation (FLETA), etc.


Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the TR-12/GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the TR-12/GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


To be found well-qualified, and in addition to meeting specialized experience, the applicant must have achieved a well-qualified score of 85 or higher to receive priority consideration.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙