Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Cardiac Catheterization)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12840794-26-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 2, 2025 to Tuesday, December 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
This position is a GS-9, which is above the full performance level for the Medical Instrument Technician (Cardiac Catheterization) GS-0649. Below you will find the equivalent experience to qualify at the GS-9 level.  Please review and answer Yes or No if you have the experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one full year of Specialized Experience, equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-8)? Please note, you must meet the specialized experience as well as the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities as noted further in the assessment.

Equivalent experience and roles include special assignments such as, providing cardiac catheterization technician services in more complex cases; reviewing and making recommendations regarding new and emerging procedures; Advanced knowledge of equipment, medications, and supplies used in the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory and the ability to set-up, calibrate, operate, and troubleshoot this equipment; Knowledge and understanding of wave forms from the great vessels and all chambers of the heart including the ability to recognize and distinguish normal from abnormal, artifact from abnormality, and forewarn the physician of an impending life-threatening situation. Knowledge of quality control and performance improvement indicators for the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory and ability to prepare and analyze quality control of test results. Scrubbing, circulating, and operating equipment on the most complex examination and treatment procedures including procedures such as endocardial biopsy, radio frequency ablation procedures, and intra-aortic balloon pump therapy for very critical patients. Prepare and administer cardiac medications as directed by the attending physician. Mentor and train lower graded technicians, nurses, nursing students, and cardiopulmonary technology students on cardiac catheterization laboratory procedures and assist the supervisor/manager with quality control and performance improvement activities.
 Yes
 No


In addition to the specialized experience above, you must also be able to demonstrate the below Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's). Responses to the below are optional and will only enhance your application package.  Please reply to the below in narrative statements as it pertains to your qualifications.


2.
Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols, that pertain to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory.


3.
Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.


4.
Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.


5.
Ability to manage and supervise employees.


6.
Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙