Position Title
Student Trainee (Public Affairs)
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-26-MCE-12886134-JKM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a student who has been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate? Note: you must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate Resources.


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Collins, CO
 B. Urbandale, IA


PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CAREFULLY. Applicants will be referred to all grade levels at or above the one selected for which they are qualified. Not selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade could limit your consideration for referral if, after review of your application, resume, and supporting documents, you are deemed not qualified for your selected Lowest Acceptable Grade. Selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade will not limit your consideration at higher grades.


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes
 No


4.
DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


6.
How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other


7.
Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".


8.
2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that my resume cannot exceed 2-pages in length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume exceeds two pages, then I understand I will be removed from consideration.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" and "How to Apply" sections of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


9.
When we complete our selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources staff at additional federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a GS-1099-05/07 Student Trainee (Public Affairs) position with the Food Safety and Inspection Service. We will evaluate your resume, transcript(s) and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Are you currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a full-time or part-time student in an accredited college or university in a degree seeking program? To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status in the form of unofficial transcripts. Note: You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher? (without rounding).
 Yes
 No


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess to qualify at the GS-05 grade level.
 I have successfully completed 4 full academic years of post-high school study leading to a bachelor's degree or completion of a bachelor's degree. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your unofficial transcripts.)
 My education is not reflected in statement A above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess to qualify at the GS-07 grade level.
 I have successfully completed 1 full academic year of graduate-level education. (NOTE: An academic year of graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 academic year of full-time study. You must attach a copy of your unofficial transcripts.)
 I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) after completing a bachelor's degree. S.A.A. is based on one of the following three methods: (1) Class standing, (2) Grade-point average (G.P.A.), or (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society. (NOTE: See announcement for S.A.A. details. You must attach a copy of your unofficial transcripts.)
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙