Position Title
Contract Specialist (Direct Hire)
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
HQ-26-DE-12904141-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marshall Space Flight Ctr, Huntsville, AL
 B. Armstrong Flight Research Ctr, Edwards AFB, CA
 C. Ames Research Ctr, Moffett Field, CA
 D. Kennedy Space Ctr, Kennedy Space Center, FL
 E. Goddard Space Flight Ctr, Greenbelt, MD
 F. NASA Shared Services, Bay Saint Louis, MS
 G. Stennis Space Ctr, Stennis Space Center, MS
 H. White Sands Test Facility, Las Cruces, NM
 I. Glenn Research Ctr, Cleveland, OH
 J. Johnson Space Ctr, Houston, TX
 K. Langley Research Ctr, Hampton, VA
 L. Wallops Flight Facility, Wallops Island, VA
 M. Katherine Johnson IV&V, Fairmont, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


Basic Requirements: 


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how you meet the requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree or higher with a major in any field.
 I have completed at least 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in an accredited college or university in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I am eligible for an exception to this education requirement because I occupied a GS-1102 position at the GS-05 through GS-12 grade level on January 1, 2000.
 I expect to complete at least one of the Basic Education Requirements for this position by May 31, 2026.
 I do not have the education described above.
 I am not eligible for the exception described above.


Additional Requirements


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-07 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service that included: Applying knowledge of principles and practices for contract, procurement, finance for business requirements; AND Assisting with preparing reports related to funds, expenses or similar.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of graduate level education in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of law school.
 I have completed a bachelor's degree in an appropriate field and I meet Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) criteria: (1) I was in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or (2) I have a 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA as recorded on my official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (3) I have a 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (4) I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I expect to complete at least one of the education degree requirements for this grade level by May 31, 2026.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-09 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service that included: Applying principles and practices regulations for contract, procurement, finance for commercial, logistics, supply chain management or business requirements for analyzing cost and pricing data; AND Assisting with pre-award or post-award contracting procedures; OR Assisting in generating financial reports to analyze cost, expenses, and obligations.
 I have completed all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master’s or equivalent graduate degree in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I have completed all requirements for a LL.B. or J.D. degree in an appropriate field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, C, and D above.
 I expect to complete at least one of the education degree requirements for this grade level by May 31, 2026.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Interpreting and applying principles and practices regulations for contract, procurement, finance for logistics, supply chain management or business requirements to identify sources, analyze cost and pricing data; AND Preparing pre-award or post-award contract administration; OR Preparing a variety of reports concerning the status of funds, expenses, and obligations.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I expect to complete at least one of the education degree requirements for this grade level by May 31, 2026.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙