Position Title
Lead Attorney-Advisor (Real Property)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13066923-ATT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 19, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Excepted Service Priority Reemployment List Candidates

You are eligible under this authority if you are applying to an Excepted Service position AND: 

(1) A former Excepted Service Army employee with veteran's preference furloughed or separated from a continuing appointment without delinquency or misconduct in the commuting area of this position for which you are applying and applied/applying for reemployment.
OR
(2) A former Army employee with veteran's preference who, as the result of an appeal under 5 CFR part 752, is found by the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to have been unjustifiably dismissed in the commuting area of this position for which you are applying, unless broader or different area is specified by Board decision or agency, but who is not entitled to immediate restoration under the Board's decision.
OR
(3) A former Excepted Service Army employee furloughed or separated due to compensable injury sustained under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, subchapter I in the commuting area of this position for which you are applying, unless it has been determined that an appropriate vacancy is unlikely to occur in that area, and are not entitled to immediate restoration.

NOTE: Consideration of Priority Reemployment Candidates will be made in accordance with 5 CFR Part 302. If you are determined eligible for the Priority Reemployment List, you will be added to and remain on the agency list for a period of two (2) years.

Supporting Documentation: If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, as well as veteran's preference and/or MSPB decision documentation, if applicable, with your completed application.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this  Lead Attorney-Adviser (Real Property), position with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Portland District.

Your resume and the responses you provide to this questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


This section will be used to determine if you are eligible for placement as a General Attorney.


1.
Civilian attorneys practicing law must be active members of the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. commonwealth, U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia. Are you currently an active member of a bar (in good standing) of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?

 Yes
 No


2.
Select the one statement below that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an  Lead Attorney-Adviser (Real Property), at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) AND have received my first professional law degree (LLB or JD).
 I do not possess the education described above.


This section will be used to determine your eligibility for placement as a General Attorney at either the GS-0905-14 level.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Lead Attorney-Adviser (Real Property) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have three or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, performing the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: advising on the most difficult matters involving real estate acquisitions, including direct purchase, leases, easements, or donation of real property; interpreting and applying case law, statutes, regulations and policies pertaining to land acquisition, easement acquisition, construction-related issues, and operation of projects and activities; Federal acquisitions of a variety of property interests, environmental and federal real estate acquisition rules and regulations, and various State laws within the applicable area of responsibility; review of Condemnation Assemblies, Declarations of Taking (DTs) and coordination with assigned U.S. Attorney(s); prepare Pre-Acquisition and Post-Acquisition Title Opinions in accordance with DOJ Title Standards; articulates and communicates to the team their respective assignment(s), project(s), program issues under review, and deadlines and timeframes for completion; prepares, reviews and clears all necessary documents for acquisitions and/or relocations that involve unique/novel questions of law, difficult legal or factual issues, large sums of money, and/or very capable opposing legal talent or delicacy.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


This section will be used to provide additional information to Chief Counsel.


4.
As outlined in the Required Documents section of the Job Opportunity Announcement, a sworn statement must be submitted as to whether your fitness to practice law or your conduct has ever been challenged. If your fitness to practice law, or your conduct has ever been challenged you must submit a sworn statement giving the facts and circumstances, together with any explanations you consider appropriate. The sworn statement should be notarized and dated within 3 months of the date of your application. (If you are currently employed as an attorney with The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, this requirement does not apply to you). Has your fitness to practice law, or your conduct as an attorney, ever been challenged in any jurisdiction?

 Yes
 No


5.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙