Position Title
Fall 2026 IT Intern (Digital Forensic Analyst)
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-CIO-13005338 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in an internship position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions. WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
All internships at the AO are onsite and telework is not permitted during the period of this internship. Are you available to work in the Washington, DC during the duration outlined for this internship?
 Yes
 No


2.
This internship program opportunity requires completion of one full year of post-secondary education by the closing date of this announcement. A full year of post-secondary education is defined as 30 semester or 45 quarter hours. Please choose the level that best describes your education below:

 I have a high school diploma/equivalent (GED).
 I have successfully completed 1 year of education beyond the high school level.
 I have successfully completed at least 2 years of education beyond the high school level.
 I have successfully completed 3 years of study leading to a bachelor's degree.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as degree-seeking students, taking at least a half-time academic course load in an accredited four-year or graduate-level program.

Are you currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a degree-seeking student in an undergraduate or graduate program, AND will you continue to be enrolled as a degree-seeking student in the next semester?
(You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)

 Yes
 No


4.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be in good academic standing, maintaining a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Do you currently have a GPA of 3.0 or higher? (You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)

 Yes
 No


5.
In the space provided below, please tell us what school you are currently attending. (Please write the full name of the university - for example, Texas A&M University and not Texas A&M U.)



6.
In the space provided below, please tell us your anticipated graduation date. (As an example, please write using the following structure: Spring 2025, Winter 2026, etc.)



7.
Which level description best describes your experience/exposure to forensic tool suites such as EnCase and Magnet Axiom?
 No Experience – No exposure to digital forensic tool suites.
 Basic Exposure – Familiar with the purpose and capabilities of forensic tools through training, demonstrations, or limited use
 Working Knowledge – Have used forensic tools to perform basic evidence collection, analysis, or reporting tasks with guidance.
 Proficient – Independently use forensic tool suites to conduct forensic examinations, analyze artifacts, and produce findings.
 Advanced/Expert – Extensive experience leading forensic investigations, developing methodologies, and training others on forensic tool usage.


8.
Which level description best describes your experience/exposure to malware analysis and reverse engineering principles?
 No Experience – No exposure to malware analysis or reverse engineering concepts.
 Basic Exposure – Familiar with common malware concepts, terminology, and analysis methodologies through training or self-study.
 Working Knowledge – Have performed basic malware analysis activities such as static/dynamic analysis, behavioral review, or use of analysis tools with guidance.
 Proficient – Independently analyze malware samples, identify behaviors, extract indicators, and apply reverse engineering techniques.
 Advanced/Expert – Conduct complex malware reverse engineering, develop advanced analysis techniques, and provide technical leadership or mentorship.


9.
Which level description best describes your experience assisting in documentation for the purposes of incident reporting, post-incident reviews, pre-incident preparation, and/or stakeholder communications?
 I have little or no experience preparing or assisting with incident documentation or reports.
 I have assisted in preparing incident documentation or reports under the guidance of others.
 I have independently prepared incident reports, pre-incident / post-incident documents, and stakeholder communications.
 I have led the development, review, and standardization of incident documentation and executive communications for complex incidents.


10.
How did you hear about this job announcement?

 USAJobs
 Handshake
 LinkedIn
 Career fairs
 Other


11.
If other was selected, please tell us how you heard about this job announcement.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient), for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙