Position Title
Contact Representative (Information Intake)
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13017021-26-DG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.


1.
Are you a current employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
 

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service and has held a permanent (non-temporary) position in the competitive service at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-06 Minimum Qualifications:
Carefully read the following description of experience and select the answer that best describes your qualifications for a GS-06 Contact Representative (Information Intake) position.
 You must have one (1) year of specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal government, performing progressively responsible duties in a high-volume contact center environment, including handling 35–45 or more inbound calls each day using ACD/IVR telephony systems; applying established call-flow language, knowledge-based content, and agency procedures to provide accurate information and properly document call outcomes; using multiple computer systems and customer-service platforms to research information, enter call-related data, and manage workflow; demonstrating strong professional communication skills through clear call-control techniques, effective written communication, and accurate email correspondence with the public; and managing workload efficiently in a fast-paced setting with fluctuating call volumes and multi-channel public contact, including phone, email, and relay services.
 I do not possess experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙