Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12881141-AR-26-232 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 09, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
10
11
12


OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position requirements, education and experience (general and specialized) needed. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently a Traditional military member (Drill, ADSW, etc.) of the Montana Army National Guard, a BARGAINING UNIT Indefinite (Tenure 3) or an NTE (Tenure 0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee or a NON-BARGAINING UNIT (of any Tenure – 1/2/3/0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee; T5 applicants must be eligible for MT Army National Guard military membership and willing to join, if not currently a military member. (Area II)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-10, WG-11, & WG-12:
Must have experience or training that has provided you with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications; skill in the use of hand tools and test equipment.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-10:
Must have experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting, and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification. Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow. Must have the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position and grade)***
 Yes
 No


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-11 & WG-12:
Must have journey-level experience or training equivalent to or exceeding the WG-10 grade level, that may include performing duties as a dedicated crew chief. Experience including responsibility for performing, coordinating, and/or overseeing the work and any periodic inspections to be done on an aircraft whether it is alone, or with the assistance of other mechanics and/or workers. Experience including coordinating the work of other journey-level workers in other trades to work simultaneously on the aircraft. Experience including serving as the technical authority to advise on, examine, and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical, and pneudraulic repairs of assigned aircraft.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position and grade(s))***

 Yes
 No


5.
SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR FOR WG-12 APPLICANTS ONLY:
Do you possess a Quality Control Technical Inspector certification as required for the WG-12 position?
(Must submit certification/memorandum with application to be considered for the WG-12 level)

*This is NOT required if applying only for the WG-10 & WG-11 position.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E1 - E7)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


7.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/reinstatement/transfer?


8.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙