Position Title
Supervisory Financial Management Officer
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12836477-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Friday, December 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen Out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess for the position of Supervisory Financial Management Officer. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I have one year of general experience equivalent to the next lower broadband (NH- 03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). Experience is defined as: Experience instructing others on financial management execution (Spend Plans, Funding Documents, Multiple Appropriations, trend analysis), Foreign Military Sales(FMS)/Security Assistance Accounts (SAA) Case funding and execution, line-by-line reviews, assessing and analyzing Pricing & Availability (P&A), Letter of Request (LOR),Letter of Offer & Acceptance (LOA) and other Foreign Military Sales (FMS) financial related activities. - Experience in applying SAA and FMS appropriation characteristics, policies, and fiscal law to plan, program, budget, and execute financial resources; using automated data processing concepts and system capabilities in order to coordinate financial activities, ensure compliant documentation and reporting, and support effective funds execution across multiple partner nations and diverse program requirements. - Experience in coordinating and briefing foreign partners, Senior Executives, and external agencies ensuring accurate conveyance of complex financial information, program status, and recommended courses of action to inform decisions and build shared understanding (This experience MUST be reflected in your resume).
 My experience and/or education does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙