Position Title
OPERATIONS OFFICER
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13005793-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12
13


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-13: You must have one year ofSpecialized Experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalentto the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for
this position includes ALL of the following:


- Independently performing analytical duties in support of planning,development, evaluation and decision-making affecting administrative and
operational aspects of office-wide operations; AND
- Providing advice and assistance on overall division management matterssuch as work-flow, records management, training, and/or enhanced
document production; AND
- Providing advice and recommendations to upper-level management onpersonnel, human resources, administrative, and organizational issues
related to mission requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet the specialized experience at the GS-12 level as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Specialized experience for the GS-12: You must have one year of Specialized Experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalentto the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for
this position includes ALL of the following:

- Demonstrated working experience independently performing analytical duties in support of planning, development, evaluation and decision -making
affecting administrative and operational aspects of office-wideoperations; AND
- Providing advice and assistance on overall division management matters such as work-flow, records management, training, and/or enhanced
document production; AND
- Assisting in the development of programs or policies to support administrative and operational processes.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you meet the specialized experience at the GS-11 level as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Specialized experience for the GS-11: You must have one year of Specialized Experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent
to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:

- Performing analytical duties in support of the planning and development of administrative or operational aspects of a program; AND
- Analyzing problems and providing recommendations/communications to
management; AND
- Providing guidance to upper-level management on personnel, human resources, and administrative issues related to mission requirements.

OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR
3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such
a degree; OR
LL.M., if related.

OR

You may qualify on a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education




3.
For the GS-11, select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level as described above.
 I have completed requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (in a field related to the position) OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree (in a field related to the position) or an LL.M. (in a field related to the position).
 I have a combination of education and experience as described that together qualify me for this position.
 I do not meet or exceed the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement and/or I do not meet the education requirements under any of the above choices.



Specialized experience for the GS-9: You must have one year of Specialized Experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for
this position includes ALL the following:

- Performing analytical duties in support of the administrative and personnel/staffing aspects of a program; AND
- Providing assistance to management on personnel, human resources, and administrative issues related to mission requirements.

OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:

Master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR
2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such
a degree; OR
LL.B. or J.D., if related.


OR

You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.



4.
For the GS-09, select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-07 level as described above.
 I have a masters or equivalent graduate degree, two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (In order to be creditable, education must be related to this position.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described that together qualify me for this position.
 I do not meet or exceed the one year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement and/or I do not meet the education requirements under any of the above choices.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙