Position Title
Machine Tool Operator Supervisor (Machine Tool Operator Foreman)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
FPI-26-13042991 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS 

LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments, estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers.
 I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training new workers.
 I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers.
 I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with training of new workers.
 I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew.
 I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.
 None of the above


3.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must be able to work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment (i.e., to determine necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions).
 I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals.
 I have supervised an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have stimulated interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems.
 I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization.
 None of the above.


4.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must have the skills and knowledge needed to operate the tool and die/sheet metal shop and to design and produce hard press tooling. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked as a set-up man and computer numerical control operator in a large production shop; and/or I have served as an instructor in a formal training program for machinists; and/or I have provided assistance in solving highly technical layout problems.
 I have performed simple operations (i.e., lathe or press brake work); and/or I have graduated from trade school; and/or I have assisted journeyman level machinists in project layout.
 I have completed an apprenticeship in the machine tool operations; and/or I have developed a well-rounded working experience in the machine tool shop; and/or I have experienced in estimating costs and man-hours as they relate to bidding new work.
 None of the above.


5.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must have the ability to do theoretical, precise and detailed work of the tool and die/sheet metal fabrication trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I graduated from a trade school with blueprint reading, tool and die fabrication, or sheet metal fabrication course work; and/or I have developed basic experience in the set-ups or special machining techniques; and/or I have accomplished more technical equipment set-ups with proper supervision.
 I have served as a journeyman in tool and die/sheet metal fabrication; and/or I have operated all standard and computer numerical control machine shop equipment effectively; and/or I have performed repairs of shop equipment and machinery.
 From manufacturer's or military blueprints, I have set up and operated machines and produced complex parts such as multi station hand press tooling; and/or I have performed troubleshooting including mechanical and electrical repairs of shop machines (i.e., lathes, grinders, etc.) to original specifications; and/or I have provided supervision and direction to lower grade machinists.
 None of the above.


6.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must have the ability to analyze and interpret AutoCAD drawings and other drawings of mechanical objects well enough to understand dimensions, shapes, materials, finish, etc. Determine if the applicant could supply missing computations and other details not furnished, and if the applicant could redline and correct drawings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have performed machine shop work which involved simple drawings; and/or I have estimated costs of simple projects using shop drawings; and/or I have assisted journeyman in completing more technical cost estimating and job layouts.
 I have worked in an experimental shop where prototype models are produced; and/or I have utilized AutoCAD drawings for the development of computer numerical control computer program; and/or I have adjusted shop drawings using AutoCAD.
 I have worked as a machinist or sheet metal worker in a shop producing a wide variety of commercial, industrial or government materials; and/or I have set-up and adjusted lathes, punch presses, or other materials for semi-skilled machine or sheet metal operations; and/or I have developed a working knowledge of AutoCAD.
 None of the above.


7.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must have the ability to perform layout work from AutoCAD drawings, manufacturers specifications, military drawings, or preliminary sketches and to operate/set-up machine operations to produce required items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have interpreted specifications from AutoCAD drawings; and/or I have determined materials needed for a wide range of typical machine shop and sheet metal jobs; and/or I have laid out work and carried it through completion, making adjustments and corrections without assistance; and/or I have made own drawings, laid out and produced journeyman level work in sheet metal or hard tooling form from sketches and verbal instructions.
 From AutoCAD drawings or material specifications, I have produced metal parts or assemblies (i.e., dies and pouches, multi-station die sets, and prototype sheet metal items requiring precision machining; and/or I have performed transfer and computer numerical control machine operations of detailed tooling drawings or design of conceptual tools; and/or I have performed technical review of detailed AutoCAD drawings for the purpose of contract award.
 Under supervision, I have completed simple tasks related to reading and interpreting AutoCAD drawings; and/or I have performed basic sheet metal/tooling fabrication; and/or I have completed training or course work related to measurement and lay out.
 None of the above.


8.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must have the knowledge of and the ability to use a variety of hand tools for various degrees of precision and difficulty in tooling and sheet metal fabrication. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have used micrometers, dial calipers, depth gauges, Coordinate Measuring Machine and other hand tools to produce metal articles with tolerances between .001 inch and 1/64th inch; and/or I have finished ground, heat treated, deburred ferrous and non-ferrous metal parts; and/or I have extracted broken studs from machine tools and dies.
 I have fabricated simple hard tooling, welding fixtures, and sheet metal parts with detailed supervision; and/or I have performed basic welding repairs using Tungsten Inert Gas and Metal Inert Gas welding equipment; and/or I have assisted in the production of various work which required very close tolerances.
 I have performed precision work on tools, dies, or sheet metal items with hand tools; and/or I have performed high precision fabrication or repaired critical metal articles involving skilled use of hand tools; and/or I have manufactured and assembled welding fixtures using build production parts.
 None of the above.


9.
Machine Tool Operator Supervisors must have knowledge of the properties of the metals used in an advanced tooling design and sheet metal proto-type shop. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have developed a familiarity with types of alloys; and/or I have developed a familiarity with fabrication processes of tool and die material selections; and/or I have tested surface hardness of machine tools and dies.
 I have worked in a computer numerical control machine shop doing a variety of repairs and maintenance on press tooling, using a wide range of ferrous and non-ferrous metals; and/or I have completed technical training in metallurgy; and/or I have assisted in the design and fabrication of parts requiring hardening.
 I have designed and fabricated parts which required computer numerical control machining, surface hardness, annealing; and/or I have adjusted heat treatments and hardening processes according to ultimate use of metal parts; and/or I have used hardness testing equipment.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙