Position Title
Dietitian -Clinical
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12891748-26-MV Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Dietitian GS-0630 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Dietitian candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Registration: All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.

Note: Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN/RD credential. Non-credentialed Dietitians who otherwise meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a full-time temporary appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2). May only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 level and may not be promoted/converted until they obtain their RDN credential.

- Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following:
Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college or university or foreign equivalent.
             Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND® and meet ACEND®'s International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam. 

AND
Completed an ACEND® accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND® accredited programs are located on the ACEND® website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory.
OR

Meet the grandfathering provision: Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement on 10/14/2022, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and registration/certification, where applicable.

Select the appropriate answer that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. (A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education).
 I hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR)
 I plan to possess the RDN/RD credential and have fulfilled the requirements as described above
 I meet the grandfathering provision
 None of the above


3.
Please indicate your registration type (RDN or RD), issue date, and/or date you expect to take the registration exam.


3a.
Registration type:
Issue Date:
Date of registration exam:


Grade Level Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-07 Dietitian (Clinical) (Entry Level Developmental) 

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-09 Clinical Dietitian Experience/Education: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-9 you must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level

OR 

Have a master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college.

Select the appropriate answer based on your level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position (A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education).
 I have a year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level
 I have a master’s degree from a regionally accredited university or college
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-9 Clinical Dietitian Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA): In addition to the experience/education above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
- Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
- Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
- Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
- Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
- Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
- Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
- Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.

Are you able to demonstrate all of the above KSAs?
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-11 Clinical Dietitian Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-11 you must have at least one year of experience as an RDN Dietitian equivalent to the GS-9 grade level.

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


8.
GS-11 Clinical Dietitian Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

- Skill in delivering patient care using the Nutrition Care Process (NCP) (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring, and evaluation).
- Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
- Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
- Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
- Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
- Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities

.Are you able to demonstrate all of the above KSAs?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title & Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
 Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. 

SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50  or your separation/ resignation SF-50.  This SF-50 needs to  show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50.  A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's.  Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation. 

REMINDER: SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (if applicable for Time in Grade and/or Eligibility):
Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.
If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement.
In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.  

MILITARY DOCUMENTATION REMINDER-  If you are a veteran claiming Veterans Preference you must submit the most recent Member 2 or Member 4 copy of your DD-214.  If you are claiming 10 point CP or CPS or XP, you must also submit a copy of your SF-15 and a copy of your Service Connected Disability letter that shows your total percentage rating.  Your veteran status cannot be verified without these documents and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation. 

CERTIFICATION AND TRANSCRIPTS-:  Please provide a copy of your official transcript and certification if using education to meet the basic requirements of this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙