Position Title
Prevention & Education Specialist (FAP)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26083 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 31, 2025 to Jan 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions Of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Prevention and Education Specialist (FAP) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Social Work
 Psychology
 Marriage and Family Therapy
 Counseling
 Behavioral Science
 Public Health
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you have two years of experience in a family and children's services public agency or family and children's services community organization, one year of which is in prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 Yes
 No


3.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0101 series, which of the following do you possess?

 I have at least 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience in providing prevention and education services in problematic sexual behaviors in children and youth; as well as domestic, interpersonal, and family violence, to include child abuse and neglect.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I do not have any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙