Position Title
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12914034 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Are you willing and able to successfully complete a federal background check?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you willing and able to work an irregular schedule including weekends, holidays, and evening hours?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you able to read, interpret, and apply building plans and blueprints?
 Yes, I am able to read and interpret building plans and blueprints
 No, I am not able to read and interpret building plans and blueprints


4.
Do you possess a valid drivers license issued by a U.S. state or outlying territory?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing and able to work in conditions where you will be required to handle objects that weigh 20 - 45 pounds unassisted?
 Yes
 No


6.
How many years of documented general experience performing plumbing, carpentry, painting, electrical and masonry?
 5 plus years
 3 to 5 years
 2 to 3 years
 less than 2 years


7.
How much experience do you posses in shop mathematics to compute complex and exact projects with features such as arc, tangents and circles have you documented on your resume?
 5 or more years experience
 3 to 5 years experience
 2 to 3 years experience
 less than 2 years experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙