Position Title
Commissary Officer
Agency
Defense Commissary Agency
Announcement Number
DECA-26-CCP-12996092-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Aug 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Fort Rucker, AL
Gunter AFB, AL
Maxwell AFB, AL
Redstone Arsenal, AL
Eielson AFB, AK
Anchorage Area AK, Elmendorf AFB, AK
Fort Greely, AK
Fort Wainwright, AK
Kodiak, AK
Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
Fort Huachuca, AZ
Luke AFB, AZ
MCAS, Yuma, AZ
Little Rock AFB, AR
Barstow, CA
Beale AFB, CA
Camp Pendleton, CA
China Lake, CA
Edwards AFB, CA
El Centro, CA
Los Angeles AFB, El Segundo, CA
Fort Irwin, CA
Fort Ord, CA
Imperial Beach, CA
Lemoore, CA
March AFB, CA
Miramar MCAS, Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, CA
McClellan, CA
Moffett Field, CA
North Island NAS, Naval Air Station San Diego, CA
Port Hueneme, CA
San Diego NB, San Diego County, CA
Travis AFB, CA
Twentynine Palms, CA
Vandenberg AFB, CA
Air Force Academy, CO
Buckley AFB, CO
Fort Carson, CO
Peterson AFB, CO
New London, Groton Submarine Base, CT
Dover AFB, DE
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
Eglin AFB, FL
Hurlburt Field, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Key West, FL
MacDill AFB, FL
Mayport, FL
Whiting Field NAS, Milton, FL
Patrick AFB, FL
Pensacola, FL
Tyndall AFB, FL
Albany, GA
Fort Moore, Fort Benning, GA
Fort Gordon, GA
Fort Stewart, GA
Hunter AFB, GA
Kings Bay, GA
Moody AFB, GA
Robins AFB, GA
Agat, GU
Andersen Air Base, GU
Orote, Santa Rita, GU
Hickam AFB, HI
Kaneohe Bay, Kaneohe, HI
Pearl Harbor, HI
Schofield Barracks, HI
Mountain Home AFB, ID
Great Lakes, IL
Rock Island County, IL
Scott AFB, IL
Harrison Village, Fort Ben Harrison, IN
Fort Leavenworth, KS
Fort Riley, KS
McConnell AFB, KS
Fort Campbell, KY
Fort Knox, KY
Barksdale AFB, LA
Fort Polk, LA
New Orleans, LA
Bangor, ME
Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD
Andrews AFB, MD
Annapolis, MD
Fort Detrick, MD
Fort Meade, MD
Patuxent River, MD
Forest Glen, Silver Spring, MD
Hanscom AFB, MA
Selfridge ANG Base, MI
Columbus AFB, MS
Gulfport, MS
Keesler AFB, MS
Meridian, MS
Fort Leonard Wood, MO
Belton, Richards-Gebaur AFB, MO
Whiteman AFB, MO
Malmstrom AFB, MT
Offutt AFB, NE
Fallon, NV
Nellis AFB, NV
Portsmouth NSY NH/ME, Portsmouth, NH
Lakehurst, NJ
McGuire AFB, NJ
Picatinny Arsenal, NJ
Cannon AFB, NM
Holloman AFB, NM
Kirtland AFB, NM
White Sands Missile Range, NM
Fort Drum, NY
Fort Hamilton, NY
Mitchell AFB, NY
Saratoga Springs, NY
West Point, NY
Camp Lejeune, NC
Cherry Point, NC
Fort Bragg North/South, Fort Bragg, NC
New River MCAS, Jacksonville, NC
Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
Grand Forks AFB, ND
Minot AFB, ND
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
Altus AFB, OK
Fort Sill, OK
Tinker AFB, OK
Vance AFB, OK
Carlisle Barracks, PA
Pittsburgh Area, Moon, PA
Tobyhanna, PA
Fort Buchanan, PR
Newport, RI
Charleston AFB, SC
Fort Jackson, SC
Charleston NWS, Goose Creek, SC
Parris Island, SC
Shaw AFB, SC
Ellsworth AFB, SD
Arnold AFB, TN
Memphis, TN
Millington, TN
Corpus Christi, TX
Dyess AFB, TX
Fort Bliss, TX
Fort Hood I/II, Fort Hood, TX
Fort Sam Houston, TX
Fort Worth, TX
Goodfellow AFB, TX
Lackland AFB, TX
Laughlin AFB, TX
Randolph AFB, TX
Sheppard AFB, TX
Hill AFB, UT
Dahlgren, VA
Fort Belvoir, VA
Fort Eustis, VA
Fort Lee, VA
Fort Myer, VA
Langley AFB, VA
Little Creek Amphibious Base, VA
Norfolk, VA
Portsmouth NNSY, Portsmouth, VA
Quantico, VA
Oceana NAS, Virginia Beach, VA
Bangor, WA
Bremerton, WA
Fairchild AFB, WA
Fort Lewis, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA
Smokey Point, Marysville, WA
McChord AFB, WA
Whidbey Island, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, WA
Fort McCoy, WI
FE Warren AFB, Warren AFB, WY
Chievres, Belgium
Cairo, Egypt
Ansbach, Germany
Baumholder, Germany
Garmisch, Germany
Grafenwohr, Germany
Hohenfels, Germany
Kaiserslautern, Germany
Ramstein, Germany
Spangdahlem, Germany
Stuttgart, Germany
Vilseck, Germany
Vogelweh Army Installation, Germany
Wiesbaden, Germany
Aviano, Italy
Livorno, Italy
Naples, Italy
Sigonella Sicily, Italy
Vicenza, Italy
Atsugi Naval Air Facility, Japan
Camp Courtney Okinawa, Japan
Camp Foster, Japan
Camp Kinser, Japan
Iwakuni Marine Corps Air Station, Japan
Kadena Air Base Okinawa, Japan
Misawa AFB, Japan
Sagamihara, Japan
Hario, Sasebo, Japan
Yokosuka, Japan
Yokota Air Base, Japan
Brunssum, Netherlands
Schinnen, Netherlands
Lajes (azores), Portugal
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
Camp Humphreys, South Korea
Osan, South Korea
Seoul, South Korea
TAEGU, South Korea
Uijongbu, South Korea
Yongsan, South Korea
Rota, Spain
Ankara, Turkey
Incirlik, Turkey
Izmir, Turkey
Alconbury, United Kingdom
Croughton, United Kingdom
Lakenheath, United Kingdom
Menwith Hill, United Kingdom


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13
14


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen-out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response that best describes how you meet the required qualifications for this position.  Creditable specialized experience for this position including managing a commissary store, supermarket, or similar type of commercial retail food store; managing a department in a retail food store; planning, standardizing, or controlling operations in an assigned group of commercial retail food stores; developing, interpreting, or applying policies, procedures, and operating standards for use in a retail food store; providing technical advice on merchandising and operational matters pertaining to grocery, meats, and produce, as well as front end operations.
 If applying for GS-11: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector (OR) I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL. M., if related (OR) I possess a combination of education and experience as described, which when combined equals 100% of the qualification requirements.
 If applying for GS-12: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector.
 If applying for GS-13: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector.
 If applying for GS-14: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector.
 My experience and/or education does not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Within the last 12 months have you had a permanent change of station (PCS) move at government expense?
 Yes
 No


3.
Identify which of the following awards you have received during the past 12 months:
 A. Quality Increase/Quality Step Increase or Sustained Superior Performance Award
 B. Special Act, Suggestion or other award (includes non-monetary awards)
 C. None of the above


4.
My most recent performance appraisal rating is:
 Outstanding
 Excellent or Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful or less than Fully Successful
 I do not have a government performance appraisal.


In this part, you will respond to questions about experience you have had that are related to the requirements of the job for which you are applying.  Carefully review the level of descriptions listed below.  For each question, select the responses that best describe your experience and record your selection.


5.
When preparing for end-of-day closing, the POS system's cash-up report does not match the total physical cash in the till.  What is the most important technical procedure to follow?

 Tell the cashier to re-count the cash to find the error.
 Immediately adjust the digital report to match the physical cash count.
 Run a detailed report showing all transactions, voids, and cash drops for the shift.
 Document the discrepancy and forward it to corporate accounting.


6.
What is the acceptable temperature range for a refrigerated produce case to prevent rapid spoilage and bacterial growth?
 32-40°F (0-4.4°C).
 45-50°F (7.2-10°C).
 50-60°F (10-15.5°C).
 60-70°F (15.5-21°C).


7.
What is the "temperature danger zone" for food?
 32°F to 40°F (0°C to 4°C)
 41°F to 135°F (5°C to 57°C)
 140°F to 165°F (60°C to 74°C)
 165°F and above (74°C and above)


8.
What is a planogram?
 A sales forecast for a specific product.
 A graphical representation of a store's overall layout.
 A diagram showing where and how specific products should be placed on a shelf.
 A report on inventory turnover for a specific category.


9.
During a routine safety audit, the supervisor discovers that refrigerated dairy products are being stored on the same shelf as raw meat.  According to food safety standards, what is the most immediate risk?
 Cross-contact, potentially exposing customers to allergens.
 Cross-contamination, as bacteria from the raw meat could drip onto the dairy products.
 The raw meat will spoil faster due to the dairy's packaging.
 The dairy products will absorb the odor of the meat.


10.
Which financial management skill is most critical for a grocery store manager in controlling expenses?
 Developing a detailed long-term business plan.
 Analyzing sales trends to adjust labor scheduling and staffing levels.
 Forecasting revenue for the upcoming quarter.
 Negotiating directly with corporate suppliers.


11.
Effective visual merchandising has the most direct impact on which of the following?
 The store's annual budget.
 Employee satisfaction.
 Impulse purchases and overall sales.
 The store's operating hours.


12.
Which technical skill is most critical for optimizing staff allocation and minimizing labor costs during peak hours?
 Conflict resolution.
 Proficiency with a workforce management system.
 Product knowledge.
 Excellent customer service skills.


13.
A manager needs to analyze the store's financial performance.  Which two metrics are most important for assessing a store's profitability and inventory health?
 Employee turnover rate and customer satisfaction scores.
 Sales per square foot and inventory turnover rate.
 Number of new hires and average time to complete tasks.
 Social media engagement and customer foot traffic.


14.
When reviewing the store's budget, a manager notices that the "Operational Costs" are significantly higher than forecasted.  What is the first technical step the manager should take?
 Immediately cut staff hours to reduce payroll expenses.
 Review the budget line-by-line to identify specific overspending.
 Ignore the overspending and hope it corrects itself next quarter.
 Purchase new, more expensive equipment to improve efficiency.


15.
The marketing department requests a sales report from the front end, segmented by product type.  To generate this, you must access and analyze data from the:
 Time clock software.
 Cash register journals.
 Centralized POS management system.
 Employee attendance tracker.


16.
Negotiations between union representatives and management to create a contract defining the terms of employment is known as:

 Grievance resolution
 Mediation
 Collective bargaining
 Arbitration


17.
An employer's obligation to bargain in "good faith" means they must:

 Agree to all of the union's proposals to avoid a strike.
 Make concessions on major issues like wages and benefits.
 Meet at reasonable times and places and negotiate with a sincere intent to reach an agreement.
 Offer the union their final, best offer at the start of negotiations.


18.
If a negotiation with the union reaches an impasse, and both parties agree to bring in a neutral third party who suggests, but does not impose, a settlement, this process is known as:

 Arbitration
 Mediation
 Collective bargaining
 Grievance procedure


19.
During a negotiation session, a union representative becomes visibly angry and hostile.  The best course of action is to:

 Respond with similar emotion to show you are not intimidated.
 Call for a recess and walk out of the room.
 Remain calm, acknowledge their emotions without validating personal attacks, and redirect the conversation back to the issues.
 Ignore the outburst and hope it subsides on its own.


20.
How would you address a situation where a new manager unintentionally violates a past practice during a busy holiday rush, leading to a union complaint?

 State that the contract does not explicitly forbid the action, so no violation occurred.
 Tell the union that the company will do what it needs during peak seasons.
 Meet with the union representative to understand the impact, apologize for the oversight, and explain the steps you will take to ensure all managers are properly trained on all contract provisions, including past practices.
 Deny that the action took place and challenge the union to prove it.


21.
During a busy holiday rush, a customer starts yelling at you because the store ran out of a popular promotional item.  How should you respond?

 Yell back at the customer to calm down and wait their turn.
 Explain that it's not your fault and walk away to help another customer.
 Listen calmly, apologize for their frustration, and offer to find a suitable alternative or check other store locations.
 Tell the customer they are being unreasonable and refuse to help them.


22.
Participate with installation commander and/or working groups in vulnerability assessments and inspections that affect operations.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


23.
Participate in customer advisory councils.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


24.
Counsel employees regarding performance and conduct issues.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


25.
Resolve problems presented by subordinate supervisors.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


26.
Supervise managers of a department in a retail food environment.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


27.
Train subordinates, monitor compliance, and follow up to ensure no deteriorated or spoiled merchandise is available for resale.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


28.
Educate subordinates and monitor compliance on a variety of topics to include equal employment opportunities in the workplace.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


29.
Provide guidance on store operations, policies, goals and objectives of the organization to others.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙