Position Title
Field Unit Local Hiring Authority (FUL) - Park Ranger (Interpretation)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-1538-FOD-26-13034195-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 60 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): 101 Lt Henry Flipper Dr, Fort Davis, TX 79734

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 New Response
 New Response


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Merit JOA Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Specialized Experience and Education Requirements


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Interpretation), GS-0025-05 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your application materials must support the answers you claim in this assessment. If not, you will be found not qualified.
 I possess one year (12 months) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park-related work. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include, but are not limited to, the following: • Park guide or tour leader. • Law enforcement or investigative work. • Archeological or historical preservation research work. • Forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area. • Management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations. In additional, presenting informal interpretive talks or programs to the visiting public; staffing a visitor center or contact station providing resource and orientation information; or similar work that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform interpretive duties.
 Four full course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with 24 semester hours of related course work related to the occupational level of studies in directly-related fields such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I have an Equivalent Combination of Education and Specialized Experience: To combine experience and education, first take the number of months of full-time experience and divide by 12. Multiply the resulting decimal by 100. Then take the number of credit hours in excess of 60 and divide by 60. Multiply the resulting decimal by 100. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Interpretation), GS-0025-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your application materials must support the answers you claim in this assessment. If not, you will be found not qualified.
 I possess one year (12 months) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park-related work. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include, but are not limited to, the following: • Park guide or tour leader. • Law enforcement or investigative work. • Archeological or historical preservation research work. • Forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area. • Management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations. In addition, independently researching, developing, and presenting formal interpretive programs (guided walks, talks, evening programs) that connect park resource meanings to visitor interests; providing interpretive and informational services to a broad range of audiences; and preparing interpretive media or materials.
 One full academic year of graduate education related to the occupational level of studies in directly-related fields such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled.  (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I meet the criteria for Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) as evidenced by one of the three following methods: I am in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR I have a GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum, or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in my major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR I am a member in one of the national scholastic honor societies. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 Successful completion of a combination of experience and education as described above. To combine experience and education, first take the number of months of qualifying, full-time work experience and divide by 12. Multiply the resulting decimal by 100. Then take the number of graduate credits completed and divide by 18. Multiply the resulting decimal by 100. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Interpretation), GS-0025-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your application materials must support the answers you claim in this assessment. If not, you will be found not qualified.
 I possess one year (12 months) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park-related work. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include, but are not limited to, the following: • Park guide or tour leader. • Law enforcement or investigative work. • Archeological or historical preservation research work. • Forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area. • Management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations. In addition, performing interpretive work such as developing new interpretive programs and media aligned to park themes and goals; evaluating the effectiveness of interpretive services and adjusting content and delivery; serving as a lead for an interpretive theme, site, or program; and training or providing work direction to seasonal staff, interns, or volunteers.
 I possess two full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's or equivalent graduate degree related to the occupation. Directly-related fields include a natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I have an Equivalent Combination of Graduate Education and Specialized Experience: I equivalent combination of such education and experience. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 18 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (You MUST submit a copy of transcripts. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above descriptions.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙