Position Title
Budget Analyst (Field)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
Announcement Number
26-FO-DE-13018255-MF Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Dublin, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Tampa, FL
 D. Louisville, KY
 E. New Orleans, LA
 F. Baltimore, MD
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. Columbus, OH
 I. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
To qualify for the GS-9 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7) in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level (GS-7): demonstrated knowledge of budgeting policies and regulations; demonstrated knowledge of commonly used budget procedures, experience retrieving budget data, and experience preparing budget-related reports and records.
 I have a master's or an equivalent graduate degree, or successful completion of at least 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LLB or JD.
 I do not possess one full year of experience, or the education described in "B", but I have a combination of experience "A" and education "B" totaling 100% of the stated minimum qualifications for this position. (Must include transcripts to verify eligibility.)
 My education and/or experience are not described in the statements above.


2.
To qualify for the GS-11 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-9) in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level (GS-9): demonstrated knowledge of budgeting policies and regulations used to prepare division budget reports; experience analyzing the effects of budget changes; experience retrieving budget data; and experience presenting and exchanging budget related information in meetings.
 I have a Ph.D. or an equivalent doctoral degree, or successful completion of at least 3 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education toward either a Ph.D. or an LLM.
 I do not possess one full year of experience, or the education described in "B", but I have a combination of experience "A" and education "B" totaling 100% of the stated minimum qualifications for this position. (Must include transcripts to verify eligibility.)
 My education and/or experience are not described in the statements above.


3.
To qualify for the GS-12 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-11) in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level (GS-11): demonstrated knowledge of federal budget policies and processes; experience using financial management systems (such as UFMS and Business Objects) to analyze financial reports; experience reviewing budget submissions to analyze fund statuses; experience presenting budget-related findings and recommendations to Leadership.
 My experience is not described in the statement above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.

 Yes
 No


5.
ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you willing to sign a geographic mobility statement with ATF that makes you subject to relocation at any time?

 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙