Position Title
Biological Science Technician
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-327032-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Biological Science Technician position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Biological Science Technician at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have six months of general experience which includes (1) any type of work that demonstrates my ability to perform the work of the position, or (2) experience that provided a familiarity with collecting, preparing and assembling basic data OR six months of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-03 grade level in the Federal service which includes assisting in research activities or field investigations related to the biological sciences.
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level (60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours) which includes 12 semester hours in courses related to the work of the position in any combination of scientific or technical courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics. At least six (6) semester hours must be directly related to this position. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B which, when combined, is equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirement (Only education in excess of the first 30 semester hours may be used in this calculation). To calculate your percentage of education, first determine the total number of semester hours that exceed 30 semester hours, then divide the total number of your excess semester hours by 30. To calculate your percentage of qualifying experience, divide your total number of months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, add the two percentages together. The sum of the percentages must equal 100%. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙