Position Title
Child Development Center Director with CYP Oversight
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12899850 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position has been identified as a Test Designated Position (TDP). I am willing and able to submit to pre-employment and random drug testing (urinalysis) on a recurring basis.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child Development Center Director w/ CYP Oversight. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education (concentration in ECE), Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND four years of experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a master's degree in the related field of study AND a minimum of 3 years of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 A combination of education and experience; education must include courses in a child-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours, AND 4 years of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), Child Care Administration or related field of study.
 I have a bachelor's degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), Child Care Administration or related field of study.
 I have a degree in an unrelated field but have at least 24 higher level semester hours in child-related course study.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 I have 4+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 4+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 4 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child development programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 4+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 4+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 4 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


6.
Have you ever held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program.


7.
What size is the DoD Child Development Center (CDC) program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large DoD CDC program.
 I have experience managing a medium DoD CDC program.
 I have experience managing a small DoD CDC program.
 I have no experience in the above.


8.
Do you have programming and management experience in one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDCs), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDHs), Youth Programs (YPs), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have programming and management experience in all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙