Position Title
Cybersecurity Investigations Analyst
Agency
Office of the Inspector General for Tax Administration
Announcement Number
26-TIGTA-13041169 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Please choose one of the following so that we may determine your eligibility.
 Current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 Department of Treasury employee currently serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 Individual eligible for the Department of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


7.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


9.
Were you referred by a current TIGTA employee to this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


10.
Please provide the name of the current TIGTA employee that referred you to this announcement. If not applicable, type N/A.


Performance Appraisal
1.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent rating of record (i.e., final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management officials) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements or if it is not dated within the last 18 months, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirements, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-13, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
-Conducts cybersecurity evaluations of Treasury Programs or IT systems to ensure data being processed will support
cybercrime investigations; AND
- Conducts analysis on potential cybersecurity breaches, to include testing and validating application audit trails for
accuracy and completeness, makes recommendations to top level management; AND
-Conducts data mining activities related to Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) software to include
data retrieval and analysis; AND
-Correlates data from various sources used to identify potential cybersecurity breaches in Treasury systems


1.
 Select the answer that best describes your experience. 
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙