Position Title
Clinical Dietetic Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12905898-26-KLN Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


1.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


3.
Experience and/or Education: Do you possess any of the following below:

(1)    Education. Completion of an associate's or higher degree program in Dietetic Technology, Dietetics or another related field of study that is accredited by ACEND®. A list of ACEND® accredited programs are located on the ACEND® website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory
https://www.eatrightpro.org/acend/accredited-programs/program-directory.
OR
(2)    Experience. Completion of one (1) year of clinical experience in dietetics, and the possession of an active Certified Dietary Manager (COM) certification. The experience must have been received after possession of the COM certification.
OR
(3)    Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
 Yes
 No


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


4.
For this Clinical Dietetic Technician, GS-5 position:  (1)Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
(2)    Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve in CDT entry-level developmental positions. It is expected that the CDT receives guidance from higher-level staff members or supervisors and require frequent and direct supervision. The CDT is responsible for screening patients, which includes but is not limited to, collecting nutritionally relevant data such as diagnoses, medications, clinical symptoms, laboratory values, dietary history, and anthropometrics. The CDT will receive and record patient information regarding allergies, patient meal preferences and enter this information into the applicable software program(s) including the medical record. The CDT may recommend modification of the diet order for texture/consistency, tolerance, and supplemental feedings as appropriate. The CDT will assist clinical dietitians and the food service section in provision of medical nutrition therapy appropriate to the age-related needs of patients across the continuum of care and provide nutrition education for patients at the direction of a registered dietitian.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


5.
For this Clinical Dietetic Technician, GS-6 position: (1) Experience. One year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
NOTE: Possession of the Dietetic Technician, Registered (DTR) credential can be substituted for the one year of specialized experience.
(2)    Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to meeting the experience or certification requirements for this grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a)    Knowledge of nutrition screening process.
(b)    Knowledge of programs and systems used to manage patient diet orders and preferences.
(c)    Skill in conducting diet education to selected groups of patients and individuals.
(d)    Ability to work collaboratively with patients and coworkers to provide nutrition care
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


6.
For this Clinical Dietetic Technician, GS-7 position: One year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
(2)    Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to meeting the experience or certification requirements for this grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a)    Knowledge in Medical Nutrition Therapy pertaining to completing nutrition assessments.
(b)    Knowledge of food service operations.
(c)    Skill in conducting nutrition intervention, patient interviewing, and nutrition counseling as part of the nutrition care process.
(d)    Ability to organize, evaluate, and execute teaching plans to provide nutrition education for selected groups of patients and individuals.
(e)    Ability to effectively communicate nutrition education and care plans with patients, family members, coworkers, internal customers, and external customers.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙