Position Title
Electronics Engineer, AST - Telecommunications (Direct Hire)
Agency
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Announcement Number
JSC-26-DE-12913885-KVF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Mar 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how you meet the Basic Education Requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.

Note: Degrees in Engineering Technology do NOT meet this requirement.
 I have completed a bachelor's or graduate degree with a major in engineering from a college or university that has at least one ABET accredited engineering program.
 I have completed a bachelor's or graduate degree in an accredited college or university with a major in life science, mathematics, physical science, or other fields of science.
 I have completed a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university with a major in computer science that included 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours of course work in any combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science, AND that provided (1) at least 15 semester hours or 22.5 quarter hours in mathematics and statistics courses that included differential and integral calculus, and (2) in-depth knowledge of theoretical and practical applications of computer science, including digital computer system architecture and system software organization, the representation and transformation of information structures, and the theoretical models for such representations and transformations.
 I have completed a bachelor’s or graduate degree in an accredited college or university with a major in social science, medical, or other fields directly related to the duties of the position.
 I do not have the education described above.
 I have completed a graduate degree in an accredited college or university with a major in computer science.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Radio frequency circuit design tasks such as schematic capture, power amplifier or low noise amplifier design, matching-networks, and hands-on bench testing using network analyzers, spectrum analyzers, and signal generators; Supporting testing or integration activities involving common wireless protocols (e.g., Wi-Fi, LTE/5G, Bluetooth), including basic physical and medium access control layer measurements or over-the-air data capture and analysis; and Developing link budgets for wireless systems to determine whether available link margin is sufficient for the required data rates and expected operating conditions.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in a directly related field.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of graduate level education with a major in a directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Designing and developing radio frequency and wireless systems, including wireless system-on-chip integration, radio frequency system simulation, prototyping, and validating system performance against defined requirements; Developing and executing test plans for radio frequency identification and wireless subsystems, performing structured verification testing, and preparing reports that support formal certification activities; and Applying statistical, machine-learning, or artificial intelligence techniques to analyze wireless system datasets and identify improvements to system performance, reliability, or robustness.
 I do not have the experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Leading the design, development, integration, and testing of radio frequency identification based and advanced wireless systems for human spaceflight, including radio frequency hardware design, system-on-chip integration, radio frequency simulation, prototyping, and full performance validation across spacecraft and ground architectures; Conducting end to end radio frequency and wireless communication performance assessments, including antenna behavior, propagation modeling, link-margin analysis, and interference evaluation, and resolving technical issues across multidisciplinary teams to ensure reliable system operation within program constraints; and Developing and executing verification strategies and applying statistical, machine-learning, or artificial intelligence techniques to analyze large wireless datasets to optimize system performance, and drive design improvements across integrated spacecraft and ground systems.
 I do not have the experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙