Position Title
AIRCRAFT PNEUDRAULIC SYSTEMS MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12912008-AF-26-017 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates your knowledge of basic electrical and mechanical principles; knowledge of troubleshooting procedures used to isolate malfunctions in aircraft pneudraulic systems; and ability to use technical manuals, equipment specifications, and test calibration procedures in performing the work.


 Yes
 No


2.
WG-10: Do you possess 12 months experience or training which provided a knowledge of basic electrical and mechanical principles. Experience in fabricating fuel, oil, and vacuum hose lines. Experience in servicing, maintaining, disassembling assembling, repairing and testing hydraulic and pneumatic systems. Experience in diagnosing malfunctions and overhauling pneudraulic accessories by disassembling, cleaning part and examining parts. Experience in diagnosing trouble and determining remedies. Experience in repairing, rebuilding, and overhauling major systems of ground equipment and pneumatic and hydraulic systems. Experience in mechanical repairs using hand tools and test equipment. Experience that demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a time you investigated a complex pneudraulic system failure. What steps did you take to troubleshoot the issue, what was the root cause, and what corrective maintenance did you perform to resolve it?



4.

Give an example of a situation where you had to use technical publications, such as layout drawings or schematic diagrams, to solve an unusual or difficult maintenance problem with an aircraft pneudraulic system. How did the technical data guide your repair procedures?



5.

Tell me about a time you identified a recurring malfunction in a pneudraulic system. What was the issue, how did you diagnose it, and what corrective actions did you recommend, such as a Quality Deficiency Report or a proposed modification?



6.

Describe the most challenging multi-step repair or modification you have performed on an aircraft pneudraulic system, from initial inspection to final testing. What made it challenging, and how did you ensure the system was returned to maximum operating efficiency?



7.
Expand this section As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙