Position Title
Confidential Assistant
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
EX-27-003-JLM
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 15, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy • your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center .
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy • your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center .
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 9
 11
Confidential Assistant 9/11
1.
In order to qualify applicant should have demonstrated ability to perform the following tasks: respond on behalf of a senior staff member or managerial official; prepare a variety of correspondence which includes the development of standardized responses or editing to fit a particular task; advanced knowledge of computer software which includes selecting the best application for the task and combining programs to prepare advanced documents and reports; meeting and greeting of executive level or international visitors; serving as a personal assistant to executive-level individuals that required maintaining confidences and handling of sensitive information.
 Yes, I fully meet the experience requirements as described above, and my resume documents these requirements.
 No, I do not meet the experience requirement as described above, and my resume does not documents these requirements.
2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application and questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
