Position Title
METEOROLIGIST-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-134003-12841724-JSB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Sunday, December 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Meteorologist, NH-1340. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education you possess to meet the minimum requirements to perform the duties of a Meteorologist, NH-03 grade level. Your resume must support the response you select. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE ITEMS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.

 I have a degree in Meteorology, Atmospheric Science, or other Natural Science major that included the following: 1. At least 24 semester (36 quarter) hours in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a) Six semester hours of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics; b) Six semester hours of analysis and prediction of weather systems (synoptic/mesoscale); c) Three semester hours of physical meteorology; d) Two semester hours of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation; 2. Six semester hours of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions; 3. Three semester hours of ordinary differential equations; 4. At least nine semester hours for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. * There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major. NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I have a combination of education and experience-- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in the above statements.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for a Meteorologist, NH-1340. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and specialized experience requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Meteorologist at the NH-1340-03 pay band or equivalent grade level in the Federal Service.  Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NH-02 pay or equivalent in other pay systems in the Federal service which includes knowledge of professional meteorological concepts, principles, and practices used in the execution of the weather career field mission; knowledge of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to participate in the assessment and improvement of AF Weather plans and programs; skill in applying standard principles, concepts, and practices of Weather sufficient to perform difficult assignments in work associated with advising or performing research in Weather; skill in collecting, analyzing, and interpreting data to identify significant factors and recommend a solution from a number of possible alternatives. Note: You must submit a copy of official transcripts.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statement.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙