Position Title
Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12924925-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


9.
When the Bureau of Engraving and Printing completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of ability you possess to perform the duties of a Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor, WE-4454-10, related to leading or supervising.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor duties. I have used mechanical, electrical, and electronic measuring instruments and tested inks. Additionally, I have supervised others in the Currency Manufacturing Division, which has included administrative duties such as planning work schedules and establishing/revising work priorities, assessing staffing, materials, and equipment required to perform tasks, evaluating work performance, preparing reports, coordinating work to be performed with other areas, and training staff.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor duties. I have used mechanical, electrical, and electronic measuring instruments and tested inks. Additionally, I have assisted a supervisor in the Currency Manufacturing Division, with administrative duties that include planning work schedules and priorities, assessing staffing, materials, and equipment required to perform tasks, monitoring work performance, collecting data for reporting, and training others.
 I have the ability to perform common Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor duties without supervision. I have used mechanical, electrical, and electronic measuring instruments and tested inks. Additionally, I have led a team or project or assisted with training and production support within the Currency Manufacturing Division, and I am able to provide directions, monitor work performance, and provide feedback.
 I have the ability to perform common Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor duties under direct oversight. I have used mechanical, electrical, and electronic measuring instruments and tested inks. Additionally, I have assisted others with technical skills needed to perform routine tasks.
 I do not have the ability to perform any of the duties of a Plate Printer Assistant Supervisor related to leading or supervising others.


2.
Please select from the choices below the answer that best represents your ability to promote, identify, and provide resolution for matters related to workplace success within a manufacturing facility.
 As a supervisor, I have resolved informal grievances, promoted EEO policies, fostered compliance with collective bargaining agreements, and motived employees to perform their daily duties and assigned work to the best of their abilities.
 I have assisted a supervisor with providing resolution in minor workplace disagreements between subordinates, promoting EEO policies, fostering compliance with collective bargaining agreements, and motivated subordinates to complete their daily duties as assigned.
 As a team lead, I have facilitated resolution between team members in routine workplace disagreements, promoted EEO policies, ensured compliance with collective bargaining agreements, and motivated team members to complete their daily duties as assigned and collaborate with other teams as assigned.
 As part of a team, I have reported conflict to the appropriate supervisory, maintained knowledge of EEO policies, been compliant with collective bargaining agreements, and completed my daily duties as assigned by a supervisor or team lead.
 None of the above.


3.
Select from the choices below all of the types of presses you have set up, operated, and performed troubleshooting on.
 A. Offset
 B. Intaglio
 C. Lithography Numbering Letterpress
 D. Block Printing
 E. None of the Above.


4.
Choose the statement that describe your ability to participate in multi-level production planning and monitoring the work done by subordinates for completeness.
 As a supervisor, I have delegated, planned, and adhered to established daily, weekly or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, priorities, methods, and policies. I have delegated and monitored work assignments for quality assurance goals and protocols.
 I have assisted a supervisor with estimating material and manpower needs for specific jobs. I have assessed work to ensure production and quality assurance goals are being met.
 As a team lead, I have interpreted production/technical manuals to prepare work instructions for team members. I have assisted team members with meeting their production goals and in completing their routine assignments.
 As part of a team, I have managed my work assignments and given assistance to other members of my team as required.
 None of the above.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to coordinate production planning and administration within a manufacturing facility.
 I have the ability to coordinate work operations with other areas of operation, estimate material and manpower needs for specific jobs, plan and adhere to established daily, weekly, or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, and priorities. Also I am able to independently prepare work instructions and procedures for a workforce, monitor daily production, and prepare reports.
 I have the ability to estimate material and manpower needs for specific jobs, planning and adhering to established daily, weekly, or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, and priorities, preparing work instructions and procedures for a workforce, monitoring daily production, and preparing reports.
 I have the ability to plan and adhere to established daily, weekly, or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, and priorities, preparing work instructions and procedures for a workforce, monitoring daily production, and preparing reports.
 I have the ability to prepare work instructions and procedures for a workforce, monitoring daily production, and preparing reports.
 I do not have the ability to do any of the duties as described above.


6.
From the choices below, please choose the option that best describes your ability to run manufacturing printing presses and analyze technical data and reports as a part of your daily duties.
 I have independently analyzed, troubleshot, and requested necessary repairs on printing presses as required. I have analyzed, documented, and reported technical data related to manufacturing processes.
 I have analyzed, troubleshot, and facilitated the requests for necessary repairs to be made on printing presses as required with minimal supervisory support. I have independently analyzed, documented, and reported manufacturing data to supervisors as requested.
 I have analyzed and troubleshot minor equipment errors and made recommendations for minor repairs. With minimal supervision, I have analyzed, documented, and reported manufacturing data.
 I have analyzed and troubleshot equipment malfunctions under general supervision. I have interpreted manufacturing data using general guidance.
 I do not have the ability to analyze, troubleshoot, or identify necessary repairs on printing presses or the ability to analyze and report technical data.


7.
From the following list choose all of the computer software packages you have routinely used in your daily work.
 A. MS Word/MS Outlook
 B. MS Excel/ MS PowerPoint
 C. FLOWSYS
 D. Oracle /MSS/Tableau
 E. None of the above.


8.
Choose the statement that best reflects your ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships in a team setting.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to help achieve a project or program goal, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, engaged others in sharing information to identify potential issues and proposed possible solutions, and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to help achieve a project or program goal, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others on a team to perform routine duties.
 None of the above.


9.
Select from the choices below all of the following types of manuals with which you have used to interpret information and provide guidance.
 A. ISO manuals
 B. EHS Manuals
 C. Printing Press/Manufacturing Equipment Operating Manuals
 D. Inspection system and/or Quality Manuals
 E. I have not given guidance on any of the above manuals.


10.
Which of the following represents your highest level of ability in resolving issues related to defects identified during routine inspection and/or quality control measures within a manufacturing facility.
 I have supervised employees who are responsible for resolving issues related to defects identified during inspection. I am the person who is consulted by others to assist in completing quality control tasks due to my high-level expertise.
 I have led or overseen subordinates who are working collaboratively to resolve issues related to defects identified during inspection independently and I am able to assist others with quality control feedback without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have resolved minor issues related to defects identified during routine inspection of manufacturing tools, equipment, and products while monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to assess performance.
 I have been trained in resolving issues related to defects identified during inspection but have not performed it routinely as part of daily job duties.
 I do not have experience resolving issues related to defects identified during inspection.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙