Position Title
MATERIALS EXAMINER AND IDENTIFIER (HAZMAT)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12987695-AR-26-091 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E2 - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E2 - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E2 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which demonstrates the ability to distinguish between closely related or similar items, ability to follow procedures, ability to sort materials by type, and skill in the use of hand tools.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-07: Do you possess 6 months experience or training identifying and sorting a variety of complex materials and equipment. Experience receiving materials and equipment, recording, and placing items in proper storage areas. Experience preparing all items for shipment using appropriate agency instructions. Expert knowledge of specialized handling, storing, disposal, and safety procedures related to hazardous materials to ensure adherence to governing regulatory guidance, policies, and procedures. Experience in mathematical equations. Experience interpreting and using Federal Supply Catalogs, military and manufacturing catalogs, and technical and agency manuals. Experience using and operating forklifts and motor vehicles.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience identifying, receiving, classifying, and storing hazardous materials and complex equipment.


4.
Please detail your experience ensuring compliance with Federal, State, Department of Defense (DoD), OSHA, and EPA regulations regarding hazardous and toxic substances.


5.
Describe your experience managing hazardous waste processing, consolidation, and disposal operations, as well as spill prevention programs.


6.
Explain your experience conducting detailed inspections, handling defective shipments, and performing or initiating environmental testing.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙