Position Title
Operations Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13024709 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
What is your leadership experience with business operations within a club or restaurant environment?
 More than one year of experience
 Less than one year of experience


2.
Do you have a minimum of one year experience providing customer service to a diverse group of people, or the equivalent?
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.

This position requires availability to work nights, weekends, and holidays. All American provides breakfast, lunch and dinner 7-days a week, Monday - Sunday. The restaurant opens as early as 6:00 am and closes 7:30 pm. Are you able and willing to work the hours needed to support the mission?
 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Select the option that best describes your experience using a point-of-sale system and other software programs.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙