Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12825918-AF-25-031 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 13, 2025 to Monday, November 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 Yes
 No


Military Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 A. Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (145 AW/ CPTF) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (145 AW/ CPTF) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


2.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-7/9/11 Financial Management Analyst.
 I HAVE experience, education, or training , 1) in administrative, professional, technical, investigative, financial or other responsible work requiring analyzing problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; plan and organize work; and communicate effectively orally and in writing, and 2) using computer and automation system.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-7/9/11 Financial Management Analyst.
 I have at least 12 months experience, education, or training, 1) validating financial data, analyzing unusual trends for corrective action, maintaining and researching records, and preparing reports, and 2) in correcting coding or other errors that result in computer generated rejects
 I have at least 24 months experience, education, or training, 1) which involved commonly used financial control system regulations, policies, and procedures and 2)in managing, analyzing, organizing, and preparing reports.
 I have at least 36 months experience, education, or training, 1) which includes a comprehensive knowledge of planning, programming, budgeting, and executing regulations, guidelines, and processes, and 2) in applying analytical reasoning in the identification, analysis, and evaluation of budgetary problems and developing alternative solutions.
 I DO NOT have at least 12, 24, or 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙