Position Title
Early Childhood Intervention Services Coordinator
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-27-13078328-DHA
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 23, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
MQ Only JA JT654680 13078328 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Early Childhood Intervention Services Coordinator position with Department of War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Early Childhood Intervention Services Coordinator at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, such as Early Childhood Education, Special Education, Early Childhood Special Education, Child Development or Developmental Psychology . (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, such as Early Childhood Education, Special Education, Early Childhood Special Education, Child Development or Developmental Psychology , plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the four-year course of study described in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Early Childhood Intervention Services Coordinator at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes coordinating services for children in an early intervention or special needs program; participating in the development and review of family service plans; gathering program data for administrative reports; and communicating program information to families and staff.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Special Education (with a focus on Early Childhood); Early Childhood Education; Child Development or Human Development; Social Work (MSW); School Psychology: Graduate-level training in school psychology involves assessment, consultation, and intervention for children with developmental and learning challenges, which aligns well with the duties described.. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
