Position Title
Benefit Authorizer (Central Processing) Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12964343-DHA-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the questions carefully. Responding "No" may result in loss of further consideration.


1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Kansas City, MO


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-7, Benefit Authorizer work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower level education that you do have. Mark only one response.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-5 grade level or equivalent in the federal service that demonstrates the ability to (1) assist individuals in establishing their entitlement to receive benefits (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) ; (2) adjudicate, authorize or reconsider claims; (3) explain benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) entitlements or requirements to the general public; (4) evaluate benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) program operations to assess the integrity and quality; or (5) interpret benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) program requirements to formulate policies, procedures or guidelines.
 I have a bachelor's degree and superior academic achievement in any field. (Refer to the Substitution of Education for information on the Superior Academic Achievement provision.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have one full year of graduate level study, or possess a master's or higher degree, e.g., LL.B, J.D., LL.M., Ph.D, in any field. (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to determine 1 academic year of graduate level study.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD/FAX A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have a combination of the type of specialized experience described in "A” and the type of graduate education described in "C" that when combined equals 100 percent. (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to combine education and experience.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you acknowledge that this position is not a remote work position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙