Position Title
Azure Architect
Agency
Railroad Retirement Board
Announcement Number
26004DE-13048256-CS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current RRB employee who meets the definition of "displaced" or "surplus" and have received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Mesa, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Covina, CA
 AG. Oakland, CA
 AH. Roseville, CA
 AI. Denver, CO
 AJ. Washington, DC
 AK. Jacksonville, FL
 AL. Tampa, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Chicago, IL
 AO. Decatur, IL
 AP. Joliet, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Des Moines, IA
 AS. Wichita, KS
 AT. Louisville, KY
 AU. New Orleans, LA
 AV. Baltimore, MD
 AW. Boston, MA
 AX. Detroit, MI
 AY. Duluth, MN
 AZ. Saint Paul, MN
 BA. Kansas City, MO
 BB. Saint Louis, MO
 B. Billings, MT
 C. Omaha, NE
 D. Newark, NJ
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Albany, NY
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. Central Islip, NY
 I. New York, NY
 J. Charlotte, NC
 K. Fargo, ND
 L. Cincinnati, OH
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Portland, OR
 O. Altoona, PA
 P. Harrisburg, PA
 Q. Philadelphia, PA
 R. Pittsburgh, PA
 S. Scranton, PA
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Fort Worth, TX
 V. Houston, TX
 W. Salt Lake City, UT
 X. Richmond, VA
 Y. Roanoke, VA
 Z. Seattle, WA
 AA. Spokane, WA
 AC. Huntington, WV
 AD. Milwaukee, WI


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Please accurately identify your level of experience and demonstrated capability when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Inaccurate or false information may be grounds for not selecting you, withdrawing an offer of employment following acceptance, or for dismissing you from the position after your start date.


For the following question, please select the response that best describes your experience and/or education. You may select only one response. If you feel that your experience exceeds all the descriptions for a particular question, chose the description that is the closest level to the experience that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best demonstrates that you possess the BASIC experience required to qualify for an Azure Architect, GS-13 position

 I have IT related experience demonstrating each of the following competencies: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication and Problem Solving. This experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification. Your resume must clearly contain enough information demonstrating experience in the above competencies.
 I do not have the experience described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes the specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-13 Azure Architect.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: Design and implement secure Microsoft Azure cloud solutions within an enterprise or hybrid environment. Planning and executing cloud migration and modernization activities, including workload assessment, migration planning, implementation, or validation. Implementing cloud security and governance controls based on NIST guidance or comparable cybersecurity standards.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙