Position Title
Employment Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
319-26-AF-13003288-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Employment Specialist with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), Columbia Regional Benefit Office. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience and/or education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


NOTE: You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent Columbia, SC Regional Office, Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.

NOTE: You must provide your most recent SF-50 to show your current eligibility. View the required documents section for more detail on verification.


1.
Are you a current permanent employee of the Columbia VBA Regional Office or CTAP eligible
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am a VBA employee or a current/former VA employees who are Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. Your responses will be subject to verification. You must provide SF-50s to prove time in grade. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks' time in-grade. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your most recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit and SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time in-grade.


2.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-9 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Employment Specialist  position at the GS-11 level? 
You must provide SF 50s to prove time in grade such as a within-grade increases or promotion.
 Yes, I have at least one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 or higher to qualify for the GS-11. If so, You must submit an SF 50. You may have to submit more than one SF50 to show proof of time-in-grade.
 No, I have not held the GS-09 level or higher for one (1) year to qualify for the GS-11.


3.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-11 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Employment Specialist position at the GS-12 level? You must provide SF 50s to prove time in grade such as a within-grade increases or promotion.
 Yes, I have at least one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 or higher to qualify for the GS-12. If so, You must submit an SF 50. You may have to submit more than one SF50 to show proof of time-in-grade.
 No, I have not held the GS-11 level or higher for one (1) year to qualify for the GS-12.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Employment Specialist, GS-0301-11 position. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as experience working with individuals with disabilities and providing individuals with work experiences, internships, or volunteer experiences related to overall employment goal. The experience may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:Employment assistance duties for state or federal vocational rehabilitation offices, Account management/liaison for staffing or employment firms in the public or private sector, Federal Human Resources experience in staffing, employee relations or reemployment assistance.


4.
GS 11: Do you have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in federal service as described above OR Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related.


 Yes, I possess at least 52 weeks of specialized experience, as described above, equivalent to the GS-9 level in federal service.
 Yes, I have Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Transcripts (official or unofficial) must be submitted when using any part of education to qualify.
 Yes, I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in "A" and "B".
 No, I do not have the specialized experience or education experience as described in the announcement therefor I am not qualified.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Employment Specialist, GS-0301-12 position. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Direct delivery of vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs, other than those in correctional facilities. Specialized experience is defined as experience involving coordination of federal, private, and public hiring authorities, working with Veterans with disabilities to access Veteran's employment goals and aligning them to the employment track that best meets their needs. The experience may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Human Resources experience in the Department of Veterans Affairs or related organization that involves staffing and/or employment law, Employment Specialist duties for private, public or government entities that involve coordinating targeted outreach at various career fairs, jobs clubs, and/or job labs.


5.
GS12: Do you have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in federal service as described above?
 I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in federal service . (Specialized experience must be clearly stated in your resume)
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience as described in the announcement equivalent to the GS-11 grade level.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


6.
*VBA Non-Competitive Consideration - Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


7.
What is your current grade?


Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


8.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.


9.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙