Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (ER/LR)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZJ-13003657-26-MG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Prescott, AZ
 C. Tucson, AZ
 D. Loma Linda, CA
 E. Long Beach, CA
 F. Los Angeles, CA
 G. San Diego, CA
 H. Albuquerque, NM


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Time in Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. A SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grad (e.g., promotion). [Note: Time-In-Grade requirements also apply to former Federal employees applying for reinstatement as well as current employees applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment]


1.
For the GS-12 position, if you have held a General Schedule (GS) position within the past 52 weeks, you must have held at least a GS-11 for 52 weeks. Please respond to the time-in-grade question below. NOTE: You will need to provide an SF-50 (personnel action) to show you have held at least a GS-11 grade for 52 weeks.
 I am a current federal employee and I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a GS-11 grade or higher. [SF-50 required]
 This restriction does not apply to me because 1) I am currently a Wage Grade Employee, 30%, Schedule A, etc., OR 2) I am not a current Federal Employee. [SF-50 required if applicable]
 I do not meet any of the above time-in-grade descriptions and I acknowledge my application will not receive further consideration.


The following questions pertain to the eligibility and education requirements for the Human Resources Specialist (Employee / Labor Relations) position. Please answer to the best of your ability, your resume will be utilized to adjudicate specialized experience.


2.
GRADE DETERMINATION (GS-12 LEVEL): Please choose the response that best describes your ability to meet the specialized experience requirement at the GS-12 Level:
 Criteria 1: Graduate Level Degree and Specialized Experience: Successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Specialized experience includes: Expert-level knowledge and skill to advise management on employee relations concepts, principles, practices, and case law; Conduct analyses on a variety of complex issues utilizing research, interviews, and observations; Determines appropriate corrective actions; Provide training and communication to management on agency-wide labor relations and employee relations policies and procedures; Independently represent management in third-party proceedings/arbitration; Knowledge of performance management concepts, principles and practices related to planning, monitoring, rating and rewarding employee performance.
 Criteria 2: I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level as described in this announcement. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Expert-level knowledge, skill in applying and analytical skill to advise management and employees on employee relations concepts, principles, practices, and case law (e.g., related to policy development, prohibited HR practices, and third-party powers and procedures); Skill in researching case law, research complex facts in order to draw conclusions and solutions to complex legal issues, problems and situations; Skill in applying the full range of labor relations theories, principles, methods and techniques to conduct studies for management and respond to union interests at the bargaining table; Provide training and communication to management on agency-wide labor relations and employee relations policies and procedures; Independently represent management in third-party proceedings; Knowledge of how other government agencies' rules and regulations impact the Department of Veterans Affairs; Skilled in fact-finding and investigation boards, interviewing, and case management techniques to advise on and/or conduct investigations; Advise and provide technically accurate interpretations of local negotiated agreements and provisions to reconcile conflicting technical viewpoints; Serve as principal point of contact on labor management matters of overall concern to established bargaining units at the local level.
 I do not possess the specialized experience or possess qualifying education.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙