Position Title
AIRPLANE FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13003445-AF-26-027 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you Officer in the grades of O3 - O4?
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O3 - O4.
 No. I am not an Officer in the grades of O3 - O4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all question truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level. Specialized Experience - Is experience that prepares the applicant to perform the Dual Status technician duties and responsibilities.  To qualify, an applicant's educational-degree study program, military professional and technical training schools or academies, and aviation certifications may apply as substitutions for some specialized experience factors.
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge and abilities) to qualify for entry appointments to GS-2181-13 Air National Guard Dual Status Officer positions; have at least two years working experience in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or Air National Guard Wing/Operations Group; Qualification competencies are determined by three factors: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and the degree of hazard; Experience in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following mainframe/military aircraft; Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA); Although a variety of pilot administrative tasks are performed in support of an Air National Guard aviation program, the required competence for this grade includes the ability to train and instruct others in the piloting of a specified main-frame military aircraft. Experience in reading and applying mission tasks, intelligence reports, and weather information; Experience in supervising and/or conducting mission planning, mission preparation, filing of flight plans, and conducting crew briefings. Do you possess these specialized experiences?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience administering flight training and conducting flight evaluations as an Instructor Pilot (IP) or Flight Examiner (FE). In your response, detail your experience across the training spectrum (e.g., Initial, Mission, Continuation, or Upgrade Training).


4.
Describe your experience executing operations oversight and managing aviation safety or flying programs. Detail a time when you served as an Operations Supervisor (SUP) or equivalent, utilizing Operational Risk Management (ORM) to make critical, real-time safety decisions (such as diverting or canceling flights).


5.
Detail your experience managing complex mission planning, threat mitigation, and tactical execution. Explain how you conduct pre-mission briefings and post-mission debriefs (using flight data/media) to ensure learning objectives are met, and how you monitor crew physical/mental readiness.


6.
Detail your experience managing key administrative functions within an Air Operations program, specifically in Standardization/Evaluation (Stan/Eval), Weapons & Tactics, Training Plans, or Flight Scheduling.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙