Position Title
CONSTRUCTION CONTROL TECHNICIAN
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12952196 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have the ability to manage construction projects, including cost estimation, scheduling, quality control, and project close-out?
 Demonstrates experience preparing cost estimates, developing project timelines, and conducting quality control for repair and renovation projects. Has experience assisting with the preparation of Statements of Work (SOW) and managing project documentation like change orders and punch lists
 Demonstrate experience in one or two aspects of project management (e.g., only assisting with estimates or only monitoring schedules) on small-scale projects.
 No demonstrated experience in construction project management.


2.
Do you have understanding of construction methods, materials, regulations, and the ability to interpret technical documents.
 Has a solid background in the construction industry. Is able to independently read and interpret plans, contracts, and specifications. Knowledgeable about common construction methods, materials, and relevant regulations (e.g., OSHA, local codes).
 Has basic knowledge of construction methods and materials. Can read simple blueprints and drawings with assistance. Familiar with basic safety procedures.
 Lacks fundamental knowledge of construction methods, materials, or safety regulations. Cannot read blueprints.


3.
Do you have the experience and the capability to use specialized computer software for construction management functions as stated in the position description?
 Has experience using at least one type of industry-specific software for job costing, scheduling, or estimating. Can perform core tasks in that software with minimal supervision
 Experience using general office software (spreadsheets) for basic tracking of project costs or schedules.
 No experience using software for cost estimating, project scheduling or job costing.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have a background and work experience within the construction industry and prior experience in a Navy, Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR), or other military environment is highly desirable and should be credited favorably.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess and maintain a current, valid driver's license.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙