Position Title
Supervisory Nurse (Deputy Chief Nurse Executive)
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-GP-12974021-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Full Time Availability - 40 hours per week
 Yes
 No


2.
Full Time Availability
 A. 16 or fewer hrs/week
 B. 17 to 24 hrs/week
 C. 25 to 32 hrs/week
 D. Intermittent (As needed basis)


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
Basic Requirements - Education
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements for a nurse position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the education requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.

 I have successfully completed a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor?s degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (You must provide copy of transcripts with your resume).
 I am currently enrolled in a professional nursing program and expect to complete the qualifying education within 9 months. (You must provide documentation from the professional program to support your expected completion date.)
 I do not have the education as described above.


2.
Basic Requirements - Licensure
In order to qualify for this position, applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the Licensure requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank.

 I have passed the National Council Licensure Examination AND I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. (You must provide a copy of your license and/or registration along with your resume).
 I do not have the professional registration.


3.
Basic Requirements for the GS-0610-13
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-13.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This specialized experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples Include: Plan nursing care assignments with established priorities. Conduct nurse staffing development plans that include measurable goals. Provide technical training and guidance for staff development. Use extensive nursing care experience to identify nursing care components that require corrective action plan development. Analyze nursing care data to construct reports for presentation and accountability.
 I do not meet the experience as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙