Position Title
Transportation Security Specialist - Explosives
Agency
Transportation Security Administration
Announcement Number
BOS-26-13030932-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Displaced Employee?  To be eligible you must meet one or more of the following:
A current (OR former) employee of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) who will be (OR has been) separated through TSA involuntary workforce reduction (IWR) procedures AND I am eligible to be considered for TSA positions for all areas of consideration, for up to one year after the effective date of my involuntary separation; 
A former TSA Transportation Security Officer (TSO) eligible for rehiring priority under the Priority Employment Program (PEP);
An applicant for a Transportation Security Officer (TSO) position who has had my enter-on-duty (EOD) date delayed or offer rescinded due to a workforce reduction or anticipated reduction eligible for priority consideration under the Priority Employment Program (PEP).
If you indicate eligibility for priority consideration and exemption from Area of Consideration restrictions, you must submit a copy of the official notification that supports the eligibility at the time of application.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Referred applicants may be shared with other locations within TSA. Do you authorize the sharing of your name and application materials with other locations? If you respond "No", your name and application materials may only be shared for the position and locations on this announcement.
 Yes
 No


How did you hear about this opportunity?
1.
Please let us know how you heard about this opportunity.
Airport ad
Billboard ad
Career center
Digital banner ad
Email
Facebook
Flyer
Gas station TV ad
Google search
Gym TV ad
Instagram
Job board (e.g. Indeed, ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, etc.)
Job Fair
LinkedIn
Local TV ad
Magazine ad
News
Newspaper ad
Other streaming or online video ad
Professional organization (e.g. LULAC, NOBLE, SHRM, etc.)
Public transit ad
Radio ad
Referral
Shopping mall ad
Streaming radio ad
Text message
TSA postcard
Twitter
USAJOBS Search or E-mail
VA for VETs, TAP or other military/veteran program
YouTube video ad
None of the Above


Suitability and Conditions of Employment
1.
Please indicate whether or not you have been convicted* of any of the offenses listed within the past 10 years. (Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position.)

*You have a conviction if you plead no contest (nolo contendere), plead guilty, were found guilty, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, to any of the listed disqualifying offenses. The only exceptions are if your guilty plea or conviction has been reversed on appeal, your conviction has been expunged, or you have been pardoned.
Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violations.
Interference with air navigation.
Improper transportation of hazardous material.
Aircraft piracy.
Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants.
Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight.
Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft.
Conveying false information and threats.
Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States.
Lighting violation involving transporting controlled substances. Essentially, this means that if you have been convicted of transporting illegal drugs in a plane without activating the navigation or anti-collision lights you are disqualified.
Unlawful entry into an aircraft area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements.
Destruction of an aircraft or either a domestic or international aircraft facility. It is a federal crime to use any device, substance or weapon, to intentionally perform an act of violence against any person at an airport or to destroy or seriously damage the facilities of such an airport.
Murder.
Assault with intent to murder.
Espionage.
Sedition (inciting insurrection against lawful authority).
Kidnapping or hostage taking.
Treason.
Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.
Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.
Extortion.
Armed or felony armed robbery.
Distribution of, or intent to distribute a controlled substance.
Felony arson.
Felony involving a threat.
Felony involving willful destruction of property.
Felony involving importation or manufacture of a controlled substance.
Felony involving burglary.
Felony involving theft.
Felony involving dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation.
Felony involving possession or distribution of stolen property.
Felony involving aggravated assault.
Felony involving bribery.
Felony involving illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year, or any other crime classified as a felony that the Under Secretary determines indicates a propensity for placing contraband aboard an aircraft in return for money.
Violence at international airports.
Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed above.
Interference with security screening personnel.
 Yes, I have been convicted* of one or more of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
 No, I have not been convicted* of any of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.


All the information you provide may be verified by a review of the work experience and/or education as shown on your application form, by checking references and through other means, such as the interview process. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.


2.
Does the TSA employ any of your relatives?
 Yes
 No


Please respond whether or not you have been separated (e.g., terminated, removed, or resigned while a proposed termination or removal was pending) from TSA for any of the following reasons within the last three years.

Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position


3.
Were you separated due to unacceptable performance?
 Yes
 No


4.
Were you separated due to misconduct?
 Yes
 No


5.
Were you separated due to receiving a negative suitability determination from the Personnel Security Division?
 Yes
 No


6.
Did you resign after receiving a proposed removal letter?
 Yes
 No


Resume Requirements
1.

I understand that my Resume must include the following or I may be found ineligible for consideration:

Narrative description of duties for each job entry with start and end dates, including month and year (i.e. 8/2023 - 8/2024 or 8/2024 - present) for work experience.
Number of hours worked in a position (i.e., full-time or part-time) for each job entry. If part-time, state the total number of hours worked per week.
Performance level for federal civilian positions which include pay plan and grade/band (e.g. SV-G or GS-11) for each job entry.
Utilizing the USAJOBS Resume Builder and completing all available fields is strongly encouraged.
 Yes, I understand my resume must include the above information and I wish to continue with my application.
 I no longer want to continue with my application.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the basic qualification requirement for this position as I am a graduate from an accredited IED/bomb disposal course coupled with field experience as a military or civilian Bomb Appraisal Officer, EOD Technician, Bomb Technician, or similar position.

 Yes, I meet the above basic qualification requirement and I understand I must attach my graduation certificate.
 I do not meet the above basic qualification requirements.


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for this SV-H position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience at the SV-G or GS-11 in the Federal sector or equivalent experience that includes: Performing as a Bomb Appraisal Officer (BAO), bomb technician, or in a similar position which includes such activities: 1) Responding to alarms involving possible explosives, IED components, or actual IEDs; 2) Assessing the interrelationship between initiators, power supplies, switches, and chemicals to determine if the device is an improvised explosive, commercial explosive, or military explosives; and 3) Assisting with bomb program management responsibilities such as participating as a team member on a bomb squad to include ensuring program requirements were followed, making recommendations on procedures or helping implement processes under the direction of a program manager
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
Quality Ranking Factor: Do you have experience with improvised explosive devices and homemade explosives within the last five years immediately preceding application for this position?
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment with the TSA is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙