Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12876870-AR-26-022 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 02, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you Officer in the grades of WO1/O1 - CW4/O3 or willing to accept a commissioning opportunity?

Commissioning Opportunity - Must be a college graduate with a minimum of a bachelor's of science degree from an accredited school. Bachelor's of Science undergraduate degree in one of the following disciplines is preferred: Computer and Information Sciences, Computer Programming, Data Processing, Information Science/Studies, Computer Science, Computer/Information Technology Administration/Management, Engineering/Industrial Management, Economics, Aeronautics/Aviation/Aerospace Science and Technology, General, Aviation/Airway Management and Operations, Business Administration, Management and Operations, Accounting and Related Services, Parts, Warehousing, and Inventory Management Operations, Business/Managerial Economics, Finance and Financial Management Services, and Management Information Systems and Services. Graduate academic degrees in the above disciplines will also be considered. Some non-technical degrees accessions are permitted.
 Yes. I am an Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1/WO1 - O3/CW4.
 No. I am not an Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1/WO1 - O3/CW4; however I am willing to accept a commissioning opportunity and understand that I must submit my college transcripts with this application.
 No. I am not an Officer in the grades of O1 - O3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates that the candidate has the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess 36 months of experience or training diagnosing, repairing, overhauling, and modifying more complex vehicles, equipment, and more complicated systems. Experience which has provided a thorough knowledge of diagnostic equipment. Experience applying independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems. Experienced in testing, inspecting, and evaluating the work performed on vehicles, equipment and systems. In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you possess 36 months of experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a complex project or work schedule you were responsible for planning on a week-to-week or month-to-month basis. In your response, detail how you determined and allocated the necessary workers, equipment, and materials. How did you coordinate with other supervisors, adjust to unanticipated work, and communicate necessary changes to your own supervisor?


4.
Provide a specific example of a time you identified a significant work-related problem, such as low productivity, excessive costs, or a failure to meet quality standards. What steps did you take to investigate the root cause, what corrective actions did you implement, and what was the result of your intervention?


5.
This position involves managing a team's performance and development. Describe your experience in setting performance standards, conducting formal appraisals, and identifying and arranging for subordinate training. Please include an example of how you addressed an employee's performance, either to recognize their contributions or to correct a deficiency.


6.
Detail your experience in developing, publishing, or ensuring employee compliance with standing operating procedures related to safety, property accountability, and security. How did you ensure your team was properly trained, equipped, and prepared for readiness evaluations or inspections?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙