Position Title
Land Surveyor
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12932055-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Land Surveyor position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis. My civil engineering major included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in land surveying or civil engineering, as described in paragraph A, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a current registration as a land surveyor in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia obtained by written examination under conditions outlined in the National Council of Engineering Examiners (NCEE) Unified Model Law for Registration of Surveyors. (Note: You must attach a copy of your registration obtained based on successful completion of the written examinations.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1.) Conduct and review various types of land surveys. 2.) Manage land survey projects. 3.) Perform Contract Administration.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of progressively higher level graduate education as described in B, but have not obtained a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙