Position Title
Winchman
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13050185-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Winchman position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Winchman duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex winchman duties. I am skilled in operating an electric or hydraulic winch; stabilizing and maneuvering a mat boat barge during mattress launches, selecting appropriate greases or lubricants for winches and making minor repairs; and interpreting hand signals from flagman to operate the winch. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of winchman duties. I am skilled in operating an electric or hydraulic winch; maneuvering a mat boat during mattress launches; and interpreting hand signals from flagman to operate the winch. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common winchman duties. I can operate an electric or hydraulic winch; maneuver a mat boat during mattress launch; and interpret hand signals form a flagman to operate a winch. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple winchman duties.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


This position has selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires the incumbent to be able to read and write. Can you read and write in English?

 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the incumbent to have a minimum of 6 months of past experience operating a winch of which at least 1 month must have been on a floating or marine plant. Do you have a minimum of 6 months of past experience operating a winch of which at least 1 month was on a floating or marine plant?

 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙