Position Title
General Engineer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NESDIS-26-12964721-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boulder, CO
 B. Fort Collins, CO
 C. College Park, MD
 D. Greenbelt, MD
 E. Lanham, MD
 F. Riverdale, MD
 G. Silver Spring, MD
 H. Suitland, MD
 I. Stennis Space Center, MS
 J. Asheville, NC
 K. Madison, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Professional Engineering Position Series, 0800 because I have:

 Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 Combination of education and experience: college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (1) Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (2) Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. (3) Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A. (4) Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Professional Engineering Positions Series, 0800.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a General Engineer, ZP-0801-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in the planning, development, integration, and testing of satellite ground systems; and Contributing to the design, specifications, or other standards for the production of space and ground hardware or software.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a General Engineer, ZP-0801-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Supporting satellite ground systems planning, development, integration, testing, or sustainment of communications or networks; Evaluating the efficiency of designs, specifications, or other standards for the production of space and ground hardware or software; and Managing full life-cycle support of pre- and post-acquisition or associated tasks.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Under Systems Engineering, what specific task is the engineer expected to support regarding modernizing infrastructure environments?

 Bypassing the local network to build distinct satellite architectures.
 Cloud migration activities.
 Completely rewriting legacy data production software code independently.
 Eliminating the use of the Financial Disclosure Form (SF 450).


2.
What operational distribution standard is mandated for science-quality data sets derived from satellite instrumentation?

 Near-real-time distribution
 Quarterly batch shipping via physical hard drives
 Archiving only, with no electronic distribution allowed
 Distribution limited exclusively to the commercial hardware manufacturer


3.
What type of technical advice and support does the General Engineer provide to Program Management? (ALL GRADES)

 Expert technical advice/support on satellite systems architectures, satellite operations, meteorological data products, algorithm development, and system readiness and test.
 Advice regarding public relations campaigns and external marine policy programs.
 Personnel management guidance and labor relations arbitration strategies.
 Routine financial bookkeeping strategies for Department of Commerce budgets.


4.
Maintaining a technical and management liaison with the scientific community is part of the General Engineer's role. Which specific segments of the research community are named in the position specifications?

 The international commercial aerospace marketing board.
 The ocean, atmospheric, and geophysical research community.
 Public relations and legislative affairs committees.
 Deep-sea commercial fisheries and maritime transport lines.


5.
In the context of satellite ground systems lifecycle engineering, what is the primary purpose of conducting "Engineering Studies"?

 To document daily configuration changes for public relations campaigns.
 To assess specific programs or projects ensuring the feasibility, economy, and effectiveness of engineering plans.
 To guarantee that a specific cloud-migration commercial vendor receives the award.
 To bypass the Independent Government Cost Estimate (IGCE) requirement.


6.
In the context of Project Management, what is the engineer's duty when a conflict in priorities or an unusual situation occurs?

 Resolve the issue with the external contractor without notifying internal personnel.
 Change the systems engineering design specification unilaterally.
 Advise management of progress, and/or issues, conflicts in priorities, and/or unusual situations.
 Delay the project lifecycle milestones until the conflict is resolved organically.


7.
The Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) articulates guiding principles for the federal acquisition system. In this position, the General Engineer acts as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). According to the FAR, which of the following is NOT a primary role or definition of a COR?

 An individual designated and authorized in writing by the contracting officer.
 A technical specialist authorized to perform specific technical or administrative functions.
 A person with the autonomous authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate federal contracts.
 An individual tracking contract deliverables such as the Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL).


8.
As the Systems Engineer, which of the following pre-acquisition award documentation packages are you responsible for creating or assisting in creating?

 Performance Work Statement (PWS) and Statement of Objectives (SOO)
 Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) and Contract Line Items (CLINs)
 Independent Government Cost Estimate (IGCE) and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
 All of the above


9.
What document must the General Engineer create or assist with when procurement needs dictate entering into a contract via "Other Than Full and Open Competition"?

 Performance Work Statement (PWS)
 Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
 Justification and Approval (J&A)
 Independent Government Cost Estimate (IGCE)


10.
Under the post-acquisition award tasks for a Senior General Engineer, which of the following actions is the engineer authorized to take that a developmental engineer is not?

 Approving contractor invoices and approving contractor's monthly reports.
 Reviewing contractor invoices to track budget expenditures.
 Reviewing the Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL).
 Monitoring Government Furnished Equipment and Property.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙