Position Title
Fire Administrative Support Assistant
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
BLM-FIRE-2026-021-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Jan 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boise, ID
 B. Burley, ID
 C. Shoshone, ID
 D. Twin Falls, ID


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
What is the earliest date you are available to begin work?


4.
Enter the date you anticipate you would be available to work through.


5.
I understand that I must submit required documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement. Failure to submit required documentation, if applicable, will result in NOT granting preference or may negatively affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


6.
I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents, transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected, encrypted or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 Yes
 No


7.
My resume contains the following information: from / to dates ( month/year to month/year), grade level (if federal service), and a complete explanation of duties performed for each season and position held. I understand failure to include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. (Ex: 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time)). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 Yes
 No


9.
Only the first two pages of the resume will be used to determine eligibility/qualifications. The first two pages of my resume contains the required information to qualify for the position; I understand that any additional information will not be reviewed.
 Yes
 No


10.
From the following list, select the main way you found out about this position.
Newspaper/Magazine Ads/Articles
Radio Station
Television
Poster/Flyer
Job Service (State Employment Agency)
Internet (through search engine)
USAJOBS
Agency website
Fire Jobs Website (www.firejobs.doi.gov)
Agency Human Resource Office
Agency Employee (i.e. current/former supervisor, friend, relative)
Fire Recruiter
Friend or Relative not working for the agency
Job Fair
High School (teacher, counselor, job fair, etc.)
College or University (professor, counselor, career center, etc.)
Rehire Eligible Employee/Agency Notification
None of the above


If you would like to provide suggestions for improvement or how we can make the application process better, please go to the Fire Jobs Website at (http://www.firejobs.doi.gov/index.php?action=applicantform) and complete the Feedback form. Thank you!


Assessment 1
Vacancy Questions for the GS-3


1.
I qualify for the GS-3 because I have:

 6 months of general work experience, which can be any work experience.
 at least one year of education above the high school level, (30 semester or 45 quarter hours) in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business or technical school). I will provide a copy of my college transcript as stated in the vacancy announcement.
 an equivalent combination of general experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement to qualify for this position. I will provide a copy of my college transcript as stated in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet any of the above responses.


2.
Select the statements that describe your experience in following established procedures to communicate information to others:

 A. I have verbally relayed information from my supervisor to one other employee.
 B. I have followed established procedures to relay important information to multiple employees.
 C. I have utilized established procedures to solve minor issues and communicate solutions to other employees.
 D. I have applied established procedures in daily work activities.
 E. I don’t have experience in following established procedures to communicate information to others.


3.
Select the statement that best describes the skill you routinely apply in a team setting.

 I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting under stressful and adverse operating conditions.
 I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting.
 I have occasionally interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting.
 I have not typically had, or job conditions did not allow frequent or occasional interactions with co-workers and supervisors within a team setting.


4.
I have applied safety rules and procedures in a work environment.

 Yes
 No


5.
Select the statement which best fits your ability to follow directions.

 I have been given and followed both oral and written instructions on the job.
 I have been given and followed either oral or written instructions on the job.
 I have not been given instructions to follow on a job.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate technical information:

 I have not presented or provided technical or non-technical information.
 I have presented or provided only non-technical information to persons on the job.
 I have made presentations or provided technical information on the job to supervisors, coworkers, and others.
 I have been acknowledged for my ability to present or provide technical and non-technical information to a variety of audiences.


7.
Select all of the areas below in which you have education, knowledge, or experience in resolving payroll discrepancies.

 A. Law Enforcement
 B. Fire
 C. Hours of Duty
 D. Alternative Work Schedules
 E. None of the above


8.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience collecting and entering data electronically.

 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


9.
Indicate the following types of automated systems you are proficient with:

 A. Electronic mail
 B. Time and Attendance reporting
 C. Internet
 D. Word Processing
 E. Personnel and resource tracking software
 F. Ordering/procurement software
 G. None of the above


10.
Select all of the basic computer programs and data entry with which you have experience.

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing these tasks.
 B. I am proficient in the use of MS Office (Word, Excel).
 C. I am proficient in the use of ordering/procurement software used in a dispatch environment.
 D. I am proficient in the use of personnel and resource tracking software used in a dispatch environment.


Verification Statement


11.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙