Position Title
Student Volunteer
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-13024781NC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a US Citizen, and will be at least 16 at the closing of this announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
NOTE: You must maintain student eligibility and enrollment for the duration of the internship. If you can not, you are ineligible for this program. You must be a U.S. Citizen, and must be at least 16 years of age by the closing date of the announcement Please review the "REQUIREMENTS" section of the vacancy announcement to ensure that you qualify to apply to this internship.


1.
Are you a current student enrolled in an accredited institution at least part-time? (Equivalent to 6 credit hours or more)
 Yes
 No


2.
Will you be enrolled as a student at the beginning of your internship?
 Yes
 No


3.
Will you continue your studies the semester immediately following your internship?
 Yes
 No


4.
What is the name of the current school you are enrolled? (Example: University of Maryland)


5.
What is your current GPA? (At least a 2.0 GPA - proof required)


6.
What degree level program are you currently seeking?
 HIGH SCHOOL
 UNDERGRADUATE
 GRADUATE
 PhD
 TECHNICAL SCHOOL


7.
Pease select your primary field of study from the list below. If you are pursuing a dual degree, please also select your second field of study.
 A. Arts (Visual) —graphic design
 B. Business — accounting, finance, marketing, management, HR, supply chain.
 C. Communications — journalism, media studies, public relations, broadcasting, writer, editor
 D. Computer & Information Sciences — computer science, IT, cybersecurity, data science, artificial intelligence.
 E. Education — early childhood, secondary education, special education
 F. Engineering & Technology — mechanical, electrical, civil, chemical, industrial.
 G. Humanities — philosophy, history, languages, literature
 H. Public & Social Sciences — psychology, sociology, political science, anthropology, public administration, international affairs, international elations
 I. Mathematics & Statistics — mathematics, applied math, statistics, economics
 J. Law & Legal Studies — includes pre-law, legal studies, criminal justice, paralegal studies, and jurisprudence.
 K. Interdisciplinary Studies — liberal studies, environmental studies, ethnic studies, security/ intelligence studies
 L. Other — Trade/Technical


8.
Do you possess one of the following Security Clearances?
 SECRET
 TOP SECRET
 TOP SECRET/SCI
 NO CLEARANCE


9.
WILL YOU BE AVAIILABLE TO INTERN FOR THE FULL DATES AS STATED IN THE VACANCY? PLEASE REFER TO THE INTERNSHIP SESSION DATES.
 Yes
 No


10.
Will you be available to intern at least 20 hours a week?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙