Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12976075-26-EF Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in a career with the VA. The following questions will determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for the position of Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirements:  Please select the answer below that best describes how you meet the basic qualifications for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position in reference to Education, Experience, or Certification

NOTE: Transcripts and/or certificate must be provided as a supporting document if being used to qualify for position.
 I hold a Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field.
 I hold a Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience.
 I have completed a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience.
 I have a a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship
 I have completed a biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience.
 I have held or have held a certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM).
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not meet the education, experience, or certification requirements for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist.


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


3.
GS-05 Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist Experience or Education: Do you meet the basic requirements mentioned above?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-07 Experience: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level and possess the following knowledge, skills, and abilities?

Knowledge of physics, anatomy, and physiology.
Knowledge of electronics such as analog, digital, and microprocessor theory.
Knowledge of the use of standard level test equipment such as multi- meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
Knowledge of basic networking concepts, such as computer and server hardware and software functionality, information technologies and computer virus protection software, available software patches and upgrades, and information security tools (for example, Microsoft Office, Windows operating systems, and McAfee).
Skill in documenting all services provided in support of medical equipment and clinical systems in a computerized maintenance management system.
Ability to learn equipment operating and maintenance procedures.

Note: KSAs must be clearly reflected in your resume under description of duties to be found qualified for this position/grade level.
 Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level and I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities as stated above.
 No


5.
GS-09 Experience: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level and possess the following knowledge, skills, and abilities?

Knowledge of basic networking concepts including Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Knowledge of computer and server hardware and software functionality including virus protection, operating system patches and upgrades, and information security tools.
Ability to interpret a variety of technical data such as schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, table charts, mathematical expressions, and formulas.
Ability to use standard level test equipment including multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
Ability to perform equipment maintenance and operating procedures.

Note: KSAs must be clearly reflected in your resume under description of duties to be found qualified for this position/grade level.

 Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level and I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities as stated above.
 No


6.
GS-11 Experience: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and possess the following knowledge, skills, and abilities?

Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multi- meters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams.
Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.

Note: KSAs must be clearly reflected in your resume under description of duties to be found qualified for this position/grade level.
 Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities as stated above.
 No


Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action 

Claiming Facility or Agency Employee Eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent (not more than 1 year old) Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 (Not an award SF-50).Your SF-50 must include:
Position title, pay plan/series/grade
Tenure code
Position Occupied type of appointment (Competitive or Excepted)
Within Grade Increase, General Adjustments, or Promotion SF-50's are best, Award SF-50's do not include this pertinent information.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙