Position Title
Senior Scientific Advisor for Safe Drinking Water Act Programs
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-ST-26-13056852
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 22, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 1301 - General Physical Science
SL/ST Merit Hiring Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
.
Please read the "Required Documents" section and ensure that you submit the listed information online when you apply to this vacancy. It is recommended that you review your application materials after they have been uploaded to your application to ensure they conform to the requirements stated in the announcement. Your application will not be considered if any required document is missing, if your resume exceeds the 2-page limit stated in the announcement, or if your resume does not address the Technical Qualifications that may be required. If you have any questions or concerns regarding your application, please contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement.
