Position Title
Information Technology Specialist
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-DE-26-12950209 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Military Spouse - Are you the spouse of an active-duty member of the Armed Forces eligible under E.O. 13832 and P.L. 115-232: The spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty-OR- the spouse of a retired/separated member of the Armed Forces with a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs -OR- the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active-duty status?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit the following:
 
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage), AND
If based on member's Active Duty status: proof of active duty status, i.e. spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status.
If based on member's 100% disability: verification of the member's retirement or release/discharge from active duty AND verification of 100% service-connected disability (DD-214 and/or VA Letter https://www.va.gov/records/download-va-letters/).
If based on member's death: verification of the member's death while on active duty (DD-1300).

For more information, review FedsHireVets.gov.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current employee of the Health and Human Services (HHS) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review USAJOBS Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


4.
Schedule A - Are you eligible for appointment under the Excepted Service authority for Individuals with intellectual disabilities, severe physical disabilities or psychiatric disabilities?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST provide proof of a disability with appropriate letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist or any federal, state or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) - Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of Health and Human Services (HHS)? If yes, confirm you meet all the following requirements:
 
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is/was equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent;
It has been less than a year from your separation from Federal service

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review USAJOBS Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


6.
Political Appointee - In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5).

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).

Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).

A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


7.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is a mechanism used by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees who were separated by reduction-in-force (RIF) or who have fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former HHS employee who has been separated by RIF or due to a compensable injury?

If so, have you met the following criteria? 
- You are registered for the RPL program.
- You previously occupied a position in the same local commuting area as the current vacancy.
- For RIF cases: you held a position at or above the grade of the announced vacancy, with no greater promotion potential.
- For compensable injury cases: you have accepted a lower-graded position or been separated due to injury, fully recovered after a year, and received notice that injury compensation has ended or will end.
- Your most recent performance rating is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.

To support your claim, please submit the following documentation:
- Your most recent SF-50 or equivalent document showing your position, tenure, grade and step, salary, and full performance level.
- For RIF separations: Your SF-50 showing Separation -RIF, or official documentation of your RIF separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
- For compensable injury separations: Your SF-50 showing separation, or the SF-50 indicating you accepted a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation, and notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) termination of benefits.
- Your latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate), showing your rating score.

For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, you may refer to 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. If you elect not to answer the questions, you will not be disqualified or screened out from consideration for this vacancy.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an IT Specialist position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your experience which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for IT Specialist, GS-2210-14.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at/or equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service, to include providing consultation and technical assistance to implement, manage, and maintain enterprise-wide IT systems; leading the design and development of data management systems and repositories; and facilitating the adoption of emerging technologies while promoting best practices, policies, and procedures related to information systems, AND I have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication, and Problem Solving. 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attend to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and make recommendations.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙