Position Title
Automotive Mechanic
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
13049595 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Oct 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
How many years experience do you have in troubleshooting, repairing, and/or overhauling major components and systems such as engines, transmissions, differentials and transaxles, electronic fuel injection systems, emission control system, and related electrical, electronic, hydraulic, fuel and other assemblies.
 5 years or more experience
 3 to 5 years experience
 1 to 3 years experience
 No experience


2.
On your resume do you have documented that you are able to work independently and make sound decisions in tools, methods, and techniques to be used based on knowledge, training and guidelines provided to carry out the task?
 Yes
 No


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience in troubleshooting and replacing standard electronic components of systems and to interpret and apply manufacturers repair manuals and technical specifications, schematics, and engineering drawings, diagnostics codes, computer printouts, and safety manuals.
 5 years or more experience
 3 to 5 years experience
 2 to 3 years experience
 1 to 2 years experience
 no experience


4.
How many years of experience do you have in the use of hand/power tools, and electronic test equipment?
 5 years or more experience
 3 to 5 years experience
 2 to 3 years experience
 1 to 2 years experience
 no experience


5.
Are you able to bend, stoop, crawl, and sustain frequent standing to perform the required job duties?
 Yes
 NO


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙