Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-CLD-13022724-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation, see required documents section. If you fail to select at least one eligibility below or you select an eligibility that you do not provide proof of, your application may be marked INELIGIBLE as out of the area of consideration. The full performance level of this position is GS-12.




1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?  Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management and Program Analyst position with the Office of Personnel Management. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work required for this position at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one full academic year of graduate-level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as, Human Resources, Business, Public Administration, or another related field.
 I have a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement as described in the announcement.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience, that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above descriptions, and I do not qualify for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service performing all of the following: Researching policies, regulations, guidance, or program information to develop recommendations for customers; Analyzing data to identify trends and prepare reports, presentations, or other program documentation; Compiling information and coordinating routine program activities to support recruitment and/or outreach initiatives; and Coordinating with team members, customers, or partner organizations on meetings, outreach activities, communications, or special projects.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work required for this position at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree, or successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree (including LL.B or J.D. if related) in a field directly related to this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service, or equivalent, performing all of the following: Interpreting qualitative and/or quantitative data to evaluate recruitment, outreach, or workforce program effectiveness; Preparing reports, presentations, recommendations, or other written products related to program operations; Collaborating with educational institutions and stakeholder organizations to support recruitment and outreach initiatives; AND Providing technical guidance on recruitment, hiring, workforce, or student employment policies or program.
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at this level. To calculate your percentage of education, divide the number of graduate semester hours earned, in excess of 18 semester hours, by 18. If your education is in quarter hours, convert to semester hours by multiplying the number of quarter hours earned by 2/3rds. To calculate your percentage of experience, divide the number of months of full-time experience by 12. If your experience was part-time, convert to full-time by dividing the number of hours worked per week by 40 then multiply by number of months worked. Add the percentages. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above descriptions, and I do not qualify for this position.


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙