Position Title
INSPECTIONS SPECIALIST (SUPERINTENDENT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12969072-AF-T32-026-014 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a permanent presently employed excepted federal technician in the New Mexico Air National Guard?
(YOU MUST BE A PERMANENT PRESENTLY EMPLOYED EXCEPTED FEDERAL TECHNICIAN IN THE NEW MEXICO AIR NATIONAL GUARD TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION

 Yes
 No


2.
Please input your current military rank and AFSC:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess knowledge of the laws, regulations, Executive Orders, court decisions, and issues related to the IG complaints process, which include Fraud, Waste, and Abuse disclosures, the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act?
 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Ability to overcome obstacles to gather and interpret evidence; ability to recognize and resolve discrepancies and/or inconsistencies among findings.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


5.
Skill in conducting inspections and investigations where significant difficulties are encountered.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


6.
Knowledge to develop new approaches, methods, or procedures in data gathering and analysis techniques.

 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙