Position Title
Director of Studio and Production Operations
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
DE-13030752-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a minimum of one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the GS-14 or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and includes all of the following elements:
Experience as a supervisor or in equivalent leadership positions, which included evaluating employee performance, and which provided the experience needed to manage a large workforce of broadcast production personnel, typically through subordinate supervisors.
Experience leading a technical media production organization, including preparing and executing a budget; strategic organization planning, setting organizational goals; measuring organizational performance; implementing efficient processes and procedures; motivating staff; leading change through adoption of new production techniques and technologies; and performing related managerial tasks.
Experience leading studio and technical operations of a media organization involved in the production and broadcasting of live and pre-recorded content produced in-house and acquired from others.
Experience working with state-of-the-art digital broadcasting audio and video technology, including overseeing projects involving the design of audio and video production studios and control rooms.
Experience managing studio and field news broadcasting production processes and providing leadership in setting the direction for the organization in acquiring new technology and in integrating new and old production processes.

 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


2.
What is the level of your experience working with customers and clients on resolving issues related to the production and broadcasting of live and pre-recorded content?

 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


3.
Which of the following experience do you have related to implementing new technologies in the context of broadcast journalism (Select all that apply)?

 A. I have implemented new software, systems, or products for broadcast news.
 B. I have evaluated and selected new software, systems, or products for broadcast news.
 C. I have led teams responsible for evaluating, selecting, and implementing major new software, systems, or products for TV and radio broadcast news, based on their suitability for operational needs.
 D. I have established standard operating procedures and led the implementation of major new broadcast software, systems, or products that were used across an entire broadcast news network or organization.
 E. I have implemented new software, systems, or products for operational and/or administrative functions not related to broadcasting and journalism.
 F. I have evaluated and selected new software, systems, or products for operational and/or administrative functions not related to broadcasting and journalism.
 G. I have established standard operating procedures and led the implementation of major new broadcast systems for use on operational and/or administrative functions not related to broadcasting and journalism.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


4.
What is the highest level of your experience managing budgets for studio and broadcast operations for news production?

 I have managed budgets for studio and broadcast technical operations for projects according to defined budget limitations set by others.
 I have managed single budgets for studio and broadcast technical operations projects for news productions according to budget limitations that I set.
 I have worked as part of a team to develop cost projections for individual broadcast/studio operation projects.
 I have led teams to formulate and execute broadcast operation budgets across an organization, balancing multiple competing priorities.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


5.
Which of the following experience do you have related to establishing new facilities for studio and broadcast news operations (Select all that apply)?

 A. I have worked as part of a team to develop a new studio or technical support system.
 B. I have led planning and execution for a new studio or technical support system.
 C. I have led teams in large-scale facility overhauls, including the establishment of multiple new studios and technical support systems.
 D. I have played a leadership role in establishing broadcast capabilities in an entirely new facility, including technical requirements and broadcast news studios.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.


6.
Which of the following experience do you have related to preparing for special coverage and breaking news/unexpected developments and in defining new roles and establishing new teams to respond to changing requirements for broadcast news studio operations (Select all that apply)?

 A. I have been part of a team responsible for covering breaking news and special events coverage.
 B. I have supervised small teams providing technical and studio support for breaking news and special events coverage.
 C. I have established standard operating procedures for providing technical and studio support for breaking news and special events coverage, applied across a network/organization.
 D. I have served as a member of a newly constituted team to respond to a new requirement in studio production or broadcast operations.
 E. I have led newly constituted teams or a new unit to meet new requirements in studio production or broadcast operations.
 F. I have led teams to identify new requirements in studio production or broadcast operations, define the teams needed, oversee reassignment and new hiring, and oversee the new unit?s performance to meet changing requirements.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Which of the following describe the highest level of your experience related to managing human resources and supervising personnel in a broadcasting and/or journalism environment?

 I have served as a project lead, team lead, acting supervisor, and/or been temporarily promoted to a supervisory position in an environment other than broadcasting or journalism.
 I have served as a project lead, team lead, acting supervisor, and/or been temporarily promoted to a supervisory position in a broadcasting, journalism an environment.
 I was assigned as a supervisor and directly supervised a small team of personnel in an environment other than broadcasting or journalism.
 I was assigned as a supervisor and directly supervised a small team of personnel in a broadcasting, journalism an environment.
 I managed and supervised a medium to large workforce through subordinate supervisors in an environment other than broadcasting or journalism.
 I managed and supervised a medium to large workforce through subordinate supervisors in a broadcasting, journalism an environment.
 I did not perform any of the above tasks.


8.
Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed (Select all that apply)?

 A. I have interviewed applicants and recommended selection.
 B. I have approved the selection of applicants for vacant positions.
 C. I have reviewed work products that were prepared by subordinates; approved them and/or provided comments, revisions, and other feedback.
 D. I have made recommendations on performance evaluations.
 E. I have evaluated the performance of subordinates who directly reported to me.
 F. I have reviewed and approved evaluations that were prepared by supervisors who reported to me.
 G. I have approved time and leave.
 H. I have identified training and development requirements for my subordinates and provided or arranged for the necessary training.
 I. I have issued verbal and written reprimands, admonitions, and warnings.
 J. I have initiated serious disciplinary actions, such as suspensions or removal.
 K. I have served as deciding official to make decisions on serious disciplinary actions, such as suspensions or removal that were initiated by subordinate supervisors.
 L. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


9.
What is the highest level of your leadership experience in broadcast news technical and production operations?

 I lead and manage a multi-facility media broadcast news technical and production operation.
 I am a mid-management supervisor in a multi-facility media broadcast news and technical operation.
 I lead and manage a single facility media broadcast news technical and production operation.
 I am a mid-management supervisor in a single facility media broadcast news and technical operation.
 I do not have experience managing or leading a broadcast news technical and production operation.


10.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



11.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



12.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



13.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



14.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙