Position Title
Assistant Chief Information Officer
Agency
Office of the Chief Information Officer
Announcement Number
OCIO-SES-2026-8056 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Career member of the Senior Executive Service (SES)?  
This means you are serving in a Career Reserve SES position or that you are serving in a General SES position and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). If yes, you must provide an SF-50 showing your status as a career SES.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a graduate of an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) certified Candidate Development Program?
This means you would have a signed document stating that you are a graduate of an OPM certified Candidate Development Program and that your ECQs have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management. If yes, please submit a copy of your certification with your application package.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you Re-instatement eligible to the SES?
This means that you were previously employed as a Career SES member and that you completed your one-year probationary period.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Collins, CO
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Beltsville, MD
 D. Kansas City, MO
 E. Saint Louis, MO


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Select the agency you want to be considered for.  You must choose at least one agency.
 A. Food and Nutrition Administration - Washington, DC
 B. Marketing and Regulatory Programs - Fort Collins, CO
 C. Natural Resources and Environment - Washington, DC
 D. Natural Resources and Environment - Beltsville, MD
 E. Research, Education and Economics - Fort Collins, CO
 F. Research, Education and Economics - Kansas City, MO
 G. Research, Education and Economics - St. Louis, MO
 H. Farm Production and Conservation - Kansas City, MO
 I. Farm Production and Conservation - Washington, DC


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙