Position Title
MANAGEMENT ANALYST
Agency
U.S. Army Cyber Command
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-13032669-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Civilian Employees of the Organization Applying to Cyber Excepted Service (CES) Positions

Do you meet the following?

CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT COMPETITIVE OR EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1" or "2". 

Notes:
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category
*DOD employees can access their SF-50 at: My Biz
 Yes
 No


COE's
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management Analyst position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes directly applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in this position as a GG-0343-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. Qualifying experience may have been acquired in any public or private sector job but will clearly demonstrate your past experience in the application of the particular competencies or knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of this position. Such experience is typically in or directly related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by analyzing mission or organizational manpower requirements; proposing manpower changes and/or implementing corrective action; conducting studies related to personnel utilization and organizational efficiency; and coordinating manpower related projects or initiatives with other organizational personnel.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙