Position Title
FUL - Engineering Technician
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVK-26-13065241-FUL-NAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 75 miles from Parker Dam, CA/Lake Havasu City, AZ.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Interior, Bureau of Reclamation. Your application for the position of Engineering Technician will be evaluated based on your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.

Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. Your resume MUST contain hours worked per week and the dates of employment identified in months and years.

If your resume does not clearly reflect the experience as noted in the vacancy announcement, your application will be marked as ineligible. You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation listed under the "How to Apply" tab (i.e., residence verification, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement.

This vacancy is open to those candidates that live within 75 miles of Parker Dam CA/Lake Havasu City, AZ - you will be required to submit proof of residence with your application.


1.
GS-09: Select the response that best describes your qualifications for this position:
 I possess one year of full time experience equivalent to the GS-08 level in federal service having demonstrated experience performing the following: 1) Utilizing AutoCAD Civil 3D or equivalent software to develop engineering drawings and 2) Reviewing statements of work, construction schedules, and contractor payment requests.
 I have completed a Masters Degree or 36 semester hours of graduate level experience in a field related to this position (transcripts required).
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Application Certification: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above. B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙