Position Title
Management and Program Analysis Officer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
OMAO-26-13024614-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Newport, OR
 B. Port Angeles, WA


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Management and Program Analysis Officer, ZA-0343-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Developing, recommending, or implementing policies that lead directly to the accomplishment of major programs; and Performing analysis, conducting evaluations, or advising management on program or operations effectiveness.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
When considering project management and planning functions, how do you facilitate corporate project prioritization to increase the best value stewardship of resources?

 By standardizing project management, governance, and execution
 By eliminating transparency in project success
 By reducing resource stewardship
 By ignoring schedule development


2.
When providing guidance for new project development, what key elements must be included?

 Only the final project outcome
 Objectives, scope, schedules, and resource requirements
 Unstructured timelines and optional budgets
 Decreasing transparency in execution


3.
When performing management studies and analyses, what is the primary goal?

 To increase procedural complexity
 To recommend revisions to existing policies or procedures to improve effectiveness and efficiency
 To avoid making changes to existing policies
 To limit the execution of multifaceted programs


4.
What is a key responsibility when establishing strategic planning goals?

 Ignoring budget constraints
 Developing budget and manpower requirements
 Focusing only on short-term tasks
 Delegating all planning to outside officials


5.
When serving as a policy and planning authority, what primary role does a strategic program analyst play for executive leadership?

 Serving as an expert advisor on business and management functions
 Avoiding communication with outside officials
 Solely managing personnel records
 Delaying the implementation of major programs


6.
When overseeing the effective use of fiscal and human resources, what must one consider?

 That procedures are in compliance with applicable rules, regulations, and policies
 That resources are utilized without regulatory constraints
 That budget planning is excluded from strategic plans
 That departmental guidelines are ignored


7.
How should you interpret, evaluate, and communicate policies, projects, and programs?

 Through informal chats with external agencies only
 In reports and oral or written briefings to senior level leadership
 By avoiding high-level committee participation
 By keeping findings strictly confidential from all leadership


8.
Why is it important to promote process improvement initiatives and adjust operating protocols in a Marine Operations environment?

 To avoid new mission needs
 To increase agility and quickly pivot to changing conditions, trends, and technologies
 To maintain outdated technologies
 To decrease alignment with agency priorities


9.
What is the purpose of studying proposed legislation or regulations?

 To determine their impact on programs and operations
 To ignore federal and agency regulations
 To avoid applying quantitative techniques
 To eliminate organizational design reviews


10.
What level of knowledge is required regarding major management functions, concepts, laws, and public policy issues?

 A basic understanding of standard procedures
 Authoritative mastery
 Minimal familiarity with institutional environments
 Entry-level knowledge of policy analysis


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙