Position Title
MWR Accounting Technician (Senior Staff Accountant)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13042028 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Accounting Technician (Senior Accountant) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess to meet the basic requirements of the 0525 Accounting Technician series? If using education to qualify, transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application. 
 I have and associate’s degree in accounting, Finance, Business Administration or other directly related field.
 I have 1 year of general experience in accounting, accounts structures, accounting terminology, detecting coding input errors and date entry in an automated accounting system.
 I do not have either of these


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least two years of specialized experience with purchase orders, BPAs, consignment agreements, service contracts, entertainment contracts and purchase cards?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with SAP accounting/SAP accounts payable.

 I have five (5) or more years of experience with SAP accounting/SAP accounts payable.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with SAP accounting/SAP accounts payable.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with SAP accounting/SAP accounts payable.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with SAP accounting/SAP accounts payable.
 I have no experience with SAP accounting/SAP accounts payable.


4.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with automated accounting/accounts payable systems.

 I have five (5) or more years of experience with automated accounting/accounts payable systems.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with automated accounting/accounts payable systems.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with automated accounting/accounts payable systems.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with automated accounting/accounts payable systems.
 I have no experience with automated accounting/accounts payable systems.


5.
Please select the response below that best describes your knowledge of Non-Appropriated Fund regulations procedure and policies.


 I have five (5) or more years of experience with Non-Appropriated Fund regulations procedure and policies.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with Non-Appropriated Fund regulations procedure and policies.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with Non-Appropriated Fund regulations procedure and policies.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with Non-Appropriated Fund regulations procedure and policies.
 I have no experience with Non-Appropriated Fund regulations procedure and policies.


6.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience with general ledger account code structures.



 I have five (5) or more years of experience with general ledger account code structures.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with general ledger account code structures.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with general ledger account code structures.
 I have less than one (1) year of of experience with general ledger account code structures.
 I have no experience with general ledger account code structures.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙