Position Title
Lead Recreation Assistant (Pool Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0535 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. 
This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the Lead Recreation Assistant position. 
Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of life guard experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to complete a 500-meter swim in less than 10 min in a controlled environment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Select the option that best describes your work experience.
 I have 3 years plus experience as a pool lifeguard & supervisor
 I have 1 - 2-year experience as a pool lifeguard & supervisor
 None of the above


4.
Select all of the programs in which you have experience planning.
 A. Swim Instructor
 B. Swim Team competition
 C. Swim class preparation, scheduling & programming
 D. Water exercises classes
 E. Experience with youth
 F. None of the above


5.
How many years of experience do you have that demonstrates knowledge of water safety at an instructor level?
 I have over 3 years of experience with DOD/DON
 I have over 3 years of experience with non-DOD/DON
 I have less than 3 years of experience with DOD/DON
 I have less than 3 years of experience with non-DOD/DON
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you possess an approved and current nationally recognized Lifeguard, First Aid, and CPR certification ?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙