Position Title
Licensed Practical Nurse
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13047385-26-MLL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Montgomery, AL
 AS. Tuscaloosa, AL
 AT. CW Bill Young VAMC, Bay Pines, FL
 AU. Bay Pines CBOC, Bradenton, FL
 AV. Bay Pines CBOC, Cape Coral, FL
 AW. Bay Pines CBOC, Clearwater, FL
 AX. Orlando CBOC, Clermont, FL
 AY. Orlando CBOC, Daytona Beach, FL
 AZ. West Palm Beach CBOC, Delray Beach, FL
 BA. Malcom Randall DVAMC, Gainesville, FL
 BB. Miami CBOC, Homestead, FL
 BC. Gainesville CBOC, Jacksonville, FL
 BD. Miami CBOC, Key Largo, FL
 BE. Orlando CBOC, Kissimmee, FL
 BF. Gainesville CBOC, Lake City, FL
 BG. Tampa CBOC, Lakeland, FL
 BH. Bruce W. Carter DVAMC, Miami, FL
 BI. Gainesville CBOC, Middleburg, FL
 BJ. Gainesville CBOC, Ocala, FL
 BK. VAMC Orlando FL, Orlando, FL
 BL. Orlando CBOC, Palm Bay, FL
 BM. Bay Pines CBOC, Port Charlotte, FL
 BN. Tampa CBOC, Riverview, FL
 BO. Gainesville CBOC, Saint Augustine, FL
 BP. Bay Pines CBOC, Sarasota, FL
 B. Bay Pines CBOC, Sebring, FL
 C. Miami CBOC, Sunrise, FL
 D. Gainesville CBOC, Tallahassee, FL
 E. Gainesville CBOC, Tampa, FL
 F. Orlando CBOC, Tavares, FL
 G. Tampa CBOC, Temple Terrace, FL
 H. Gainesville CBOC, The Villages, FL
 I. Orlando CBOC, Viera, FL
 J. Gainesville CBOC, West Palm Beach, FL
 K. Tampa CBOC, Zephyrhills, FL
 L. Atlanta, GA
 M. Augusta, GA
 N. Dublin, GA
 O. Macon, GA
 P. Perry, GA
 Q. Gainesville CBOC, Valdosta, GA
 R. Asheville, NC
 S. Charlotte, NC
 T. Cumberland, NC
 U. Durham, NC
 V. Fayetteville, NC
 W. Goldsboro, NC
 X. Jacksonville, NC
 Y. Kernersville, NC
 Z. Morehead City, NC
 AA. Salisbury, NC
 AC. Wilmington, NC
 AD. San Juan CBOC, Ponce, PR
 AE. VAMC San Juan, San Juan, PR
 AF. Charleston, SC
 AG. Columbia, SC
 AH. Rock Hill, SC
 AI. Spartanburg, SC
 AJ. Sumter, SC
 AK. San Juan CBOC, Saint Croix, VI
 AL. Albemarle County, VA
 AM. Chesapeake, VA
 AN. Fredericksburg, VA
 AO. Hampton, VA
 AP. Portsmouth, VA
 AQ. Richmond, VA
 AR. Salem, VA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you have selected interest in any of the San Juan locations, Spanish fluency is a critical component. Are you able to speak fluently in the Spanish language?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a graduate of a school of practical or vocational nursing approved by the appropriate State agency and/or accredited by the National League for Nursing [Accrediting Commission (NLNAC)] at the time the program was completed?

Note: Exceptions include:
(1) Health care education in the military service or training in the military service which is accepted by the licensing body in the jurisdiction in which the individual is licensed as qualifying for full LPN/LVN licensure will be accepted as meeting the education requirements for VHA employment.
(2) VHA employees who were converted to appointments under 38 U.S.C. 7401(3) in implementation of Public Law 98-160, enacted November 21, 1983, and for VHA employees converted to appointments under 38 U.S.C. 7405 in implementation of Public Law 99-576, enacted October 28, 1986; and for their future personnel actions under this authority. The waiver will not apply to persons appointed under 38 U.S.C. 7401(3) or 7405 after these conversions.
(3) Individuals granted a license by a jurisdiction that does not require graduation from an approved school. See paragraph 4, section C.]

You must submit a copy of your legible transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain your name, the Institutions Name, City and State, degree earned with major and the DATE the degree was conferred.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have a full, active, current and unrestricted licensure as a licensed practical or vocational nurse in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia?


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit an active, valid copy of a State certified documentation to support supervision for advanced licensure. Expired certifications will not be considered.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-4 Grade Determination: Do you have one of the following: 

(a) Six months of qualifying experience as an LPN or LVN; or
(b) Graduation from an approved school (which may be waived as provided in paragraph 4 of Section C) and one year of experience that involved nursing care work in a hospital, outpatient clinic, nursing home, or other supervised medical, nursing, or patient care facility that provided a practical knowledge of human body structure and sterile techniques and procedures; or 
(c) Graduation from an approved school of at least 24 months duration.


*LPNs at the GS-4 grade level perform all duties expected of employees at the GS-3 grade level; however, they are expected to exercise greater judgment, require less supervision, and to operate in accordance with all established policies, procedure, and techniques.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-5 Grade Determination: Do you have at least 1 year of qualifying experience at the GS-4 level or equivalent?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-5 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:  In addition to meeting the licensure and experience or education for the GS-5 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Demonstrated knowledge and ability to provide a full range of practical nursing care to patients with a variety of physical and/or behavioral problems. [Works with the RN and/or MD/DO to appropriately orient/train less experienced LPNs/LVNs and/or Nursing Assistants (NAs)/Health Technicians (HTs) in relation to acceptable standards of practice in promoting optimal patient care delivery. Provides effective education to patients and/or family members in relation to common disease processes, medication, and /or prescribed treatment regimes.]
Demonstrated knowledge and ability to serve as a responsible member of a nursing team and interact in an appropriate manner with patients, family members, professional and/or other support personnel involved in the delivery of patient care and incorporating acceptable, established customer service standards into practice.
Knowledge and skill sufficient to prepare, administer, and appropriately document actions taken specific to commonly prescribed oral, topical, subcutaneous, intramuscular and/or intravenous medications. This includes observing and documenting patient responses to medication and reporting noted changes in the patient's condition to RN or MD/DO.
Knowledge and ability to recognize the need for and to institute emergency measures when indicated, promptly seek the assistance of the RN or MD/DO and assist in resuscitation procedures in cardiac and/or pulmonary arrest.
Recognize and appropriately respond to breakage/malfunction or loss of equipment, safety hazards, and supply deficiencies, promptly reporting to appropriate personnel for corrective action.
Completed work is under the general supervision of an RN or MD/DO. Individuals at this grade level are expected to have a broad working knowledge of practical nursing procedures. However, completion of more complex practices or procedures may be subject to closer higher-level review.
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-6 Grade Determination:  Do you have at least 1 year of qualifying experience at the GS-5 level or equivalent? GS-5 experience includes: 
 
Demonstrated knowledge and ability to provide a full range of practical nursing care to patients with a variety of physical and/or behavioral problems. [Works with the RN and/or
MD/DO to appropriately orient/train less experienced LPNs/LVNs and/or Nursing Assistants (NAs)/Health Technicians (HTs) in relation to acceptable standards of practice in promoting optimal patient care delivery. Provides effective education to patients and/or family members in relation to common disease processes, medication, and /or prescribed treatment regimes.]
Demonstrated ability to serve as a responsible member of the nursing team and  interact [in an appropriate manner] with patients, family members, professional and [other] supportive personnel [involved in the delivery of] patient care, [incorporating acceptable, established customer service standards into practice.
Knowledge and skill sufficient to prepare, administer, and appropriately document actions taken specific to commonly prescribed oral, topical, subcutaneous, intramuscular, and/or intravenous medications as permitted by approved local facility policies and procedures. Observation and documentation will include patient's response to medication administered and the reporting of any noted change in patient's condition to RN or MD/DO.
Knowledge and ability to recognize the need for and to institute emergency measures when indicated, promptly seek the assistance of the RN or MD/DO and assist in resuscitation procedures in cardiac and/or pulmonary arrest.
Recognizes and appropriately responds to breakage/malfunction or loss of equipment, safety hazards, and supply deficiencies, promptly reporting to appropriate personnel for corrective action.
Completed work is under the general supervision of an RN or MD/DO. Individuals at this grade level are expected to have a broad working knowledge of practical nursing procedures. However, completion of more complex practices or procedures may be subject to closer higher-level review
 Yes
 No


8.
GS-6 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:  In addition to meeting the licensure and experience or education for the GS-6 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
 
Technically proficient in initiating, performing and completing assigned duties in providing care to variable patient populations.
Knowledge and ability to appropriately carry out assigned patient care based on the patients' conditions.
Ability to observe, identify and respond to the patient's needs for care, including medication, equipment-assisted care and [patient/family education.
Prepares and administers prescribed medications (oral, topical, subcutaneous, intramuscular and/or intravenous) and performs treatments according to established policies/procedures.
Knowledge and ability to recognize urgent or emergent patient care situations, seek assistance of the RN and/or MD/DO, and initiate appropriate emergency interventions as directed.
Knowledge and understanding of human behavior, patient motivations and reactions to situations, and ability to appropriately utilize this knowledge in working effectively with patients, family members, and other staff.
Establishes constructive relationships with individual patients and their families to elicit feelings and attitudes, and to promote positive relationships, communication and socialization skills.
Knowledge and skill in performing support duties for complex diagnostic tests and/or specialized practices or procedures.
Actively seeks out educational opportunities to enhance nursing knowledge and skills, sharing new knowledge gained with other staff to improve and advance nursing practice.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙