Position Title
Paralegal Specialist - Environmental Enforcement Section
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-067-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Nov 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee or a Veteran meeting the conditions below?
You may be eligible for non-competitive Merit Promotion consideration if you meet one of the following:
Disabled veteran receiving 30% or more disability compensation from the VA;   OR
Transfer or reinstatement eligible: current Federal or former employee with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced;   OR
Individual eligible under other non-competitive appointment authorities such as: Veterans Recruitment Authority; Military spouses under E.O. 13473; Certain former overseas employees;  Present and former Peace Corps, Vista or Action volunteers; Former White House staff; Present and former Foreign Service officers and employees; Certain National Guard technicians; Schedule A; OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
To verify your eligibility: You will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation to verify your current or former Federal employment status; or your eligibility under VEOA if you are a Veteran.
Federal employment documentation will include your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form and potentially your last performance appraisal with rating.
For Veterans, you'll need to submit your Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214, Member # 4 copy) and your Application for 10-point Preference (SF-15) and a VA Letter, if you are a disabled 10-point Vet.
Those qualifying under a special authority will need to submit documentation to verify this eligibility, and this may differ from one authority to another. Please check the Announcement and the links contained above, or reach out to the HR Specialist, if you're unsure what to provide.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Federal employee applying to transfer?
To apply under Merit Promotion as a Transfer or Reassignment, you must be a current Federal employee serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service, at the next lower grade (or higher) to the lowest grade being advertised for this announcement.  To verify your transfer eligibility you must submit your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) which shows your appointment type, service, and the agency you were employed by.

To learn more, see the USAJOBS' Federal Employees page.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Washington, DC


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response below that applies to you.
 I am a current Federal employee within any component of the Department of Justice.
 I am eligible for the DOJ Career Transition Agency Program (CTAP).
 None of the above


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meets the requirement for the Paralegal Specialist, GS-7:
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 Federal grade providing litigation support in a legal environment. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, using litigation software to identify documents potentially relevant to litigation cases or maintaining legal databases used to track the production and receipt of documents.
 I have a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement that is qualifying based on (1) class standing (upper third), (2) grade point average (3.0 or higher), or (3) honor society membership. This education was obtained in or verified by a U.S. accredited college or university.
 I have one year of graduate education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work.
 I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience described above that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 None of the above


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meets the requirement for the Paralegal Specialist, GS-9
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 Federal grade level or above utilizing automated legal databases to verify legal citations and statutory references; analyzing and organizing factual, legal, and archival records; providing assistance to attorneys in preparation for hearings and/or trials; and creating and maintaining litigation databases for management of case materials.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or LL.B or J.D. Such education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of a Paralegal Specialist.
 I have a combination of graduate education and experience described above that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (Only graduate education in excess of the first full year may be used in this calculation).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


4.
Select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance rating. (Federal employees are required to submit a copy of their performance rating in their application.)

 Excellent
 Fully Successful
 Less than Fully Successful
 Fully Successful or Higher in a Pass/Fail System
 No Rating of Record
 Not Applicable


5.
Have you received a performance, special-act, or achievement award(s) that is directly related to the position to which you are applying?

 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙