Position Title
Workforce Management Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12954419-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Elmendorf AFB, AK
 B. Fort Shafter, HI


COEs
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
In accordance with AR 690-11, this position has been designated as "Key" and shall not be vacated during a national emergency or mobilization as doing so would seriously impair the capability of the organization to function effectively. The incumbent must be exempted from recall to active duty and will receive training to ensure mission accomplishment of sustaining base operations during mobilization. Are you willing and able to accept that you may be required to take part in readiness exercises, that you must be removed from military recall status, and that you may not join a reserve unit during mobilization to obtain and maintain this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Workforce Management Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Workforce Management Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) providing regulatory and technical advisory services for civilian personnel policies, procedures, and requirements; 2) reviewing organizational workforce plans; and 3) utilizing software programs to extract data from personnel management systems to generate reports.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. - There are no right or wrong answers. - Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. - This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
Two weeks before the end of the performance appraisal cycle, the District Commander, a high-level supervisor, stops you in the hallway and asks for an immediate update on the status of several urgent recruitment actions and the district's DPMAP appraisal submission rates. You are on your way to another critical meeting. How do you respond?
 Explain that you are heading to another important meeting and ask to schedule a formal briefing for the following morning to ensure you can present a complete and thoroughly vetted status update for their review.
 Acknowledge the request, state you can provide a focused update, and propose a 15-minute follow-up meeting later that hour to present a concise summary of critical statuses, timelines, and any required decisions.
 Delegate the task of compiling the data to a subordinate, instructing them to gather the relevant reports and forward the raw data files directly to the Commander's executive assistant for their immediate review.
 Advise the Commander that this information is all tracked within the USA Staffing and DCPDS systems and suggest they log in to the system dashboards to view the real-time status of all actions and reports directly.
 Provide an immediate verbal overview of the most critical personnel actions from memory, and commit to emailing a comprehensive status report with detailed data on all programs by the end of the business day.


2.
A division manager is frustrated because the central personnel office (CHRSC) returned a Request for Personnel Action (RPA) for a critical engineering position, citing an improper job code. The manager calls you, insisting the CHRSC is wrong and demanding you force the action through. How do you proceed as the liaison?
 Agree with the manager that the process is flawed and immediately resubmit the original, unchanged RPA package through the system, hoping a different specialist will review it and approve the action.
 Immediately call the CHRSC specialist to advocate for the manager's position, explaining the urgency of the recruitment and asking for an exception to be made to expedite the process for this critical hire.
 Tell the manager that CHRSC decisions are final and that they must accept the feedback, find a different job code, and create an entirely new RPA package from scratch without further discussion on the matter.
 Advise the manager to formally rebut the CHRSC's decision in writing, offering to review their draft rebuttal to ensure it strongly argues their case before they send it back to the personnel office.
 Review the RPA and the CHRSC's feedback, research the relevant job coding guidance, and then schedule a call with both the manager and the CHRSC specialist to mediate a solution based on your findings.


3.
A manager informs you they have found the perfect candidate for a vacant position and wants to hire them directly, bypassing the standard competitive process outlined in the USA Staffing system to save time. They ask for your guidance on how to proceed with this non-competitive hiring action. What is the most appropriate guidance to provide?
 Advise the manager that bypassing the process is not possible, but suggest they can tailor the job announcement's specialized experience section to closely match their preferred candidate's qualifications.
 Agree to the manager's request and begin processing the paperwork for a direct-hire action, citing "critical need" as the justification to bypass the standard competitive announcement process on USA Staffing.
 Explain the merit system principles and legal constraints of the competitive process, then explore whether the candidate qualifies for any specific, legally-permissible non-competitive hiring authorities.
 Instruct the manager to have the candidate apply through the standard USA Staffing announcement once it is posted and assure the manager that you will help ensure their candidate is on the final referral list.
 Acknowledge the manager's goal and advise them to submit the candidate's resume to you for a pre-screening, while you begin drafting the job announcement to post on USA Staffing as per standard procedure.


4.
A manager approaches you for advice. An employee is consistently failing to meet a critical performance standard. The manager has verbally counseled the employee twice with no improvement and is now considering issuing a formal written warning. The manager is concerned about a potential grievance. What is your initial advisory action?
 Recommend the manager first hold a formal, documented counseling session with the employee, clearly restating the performance expectations and the consequences of continued failure to meet the standards.
 Suggest that the manager consult the union agreement for the exact procedure for disciplinary actions and then proceed with issuing the formal written warning as they had originally planned to do.
 Advise the manager to document the specific performance deficiencies with clear examples, then assist them in drafting a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) that includes clear standards and a reasonable opportunity to improve.
 Immediately report the issue to the legal office and advise the manager to cease all communication with the employee about performance until the legal team provides explicit guidance on how to proceed.
 Offer to serve as a neutral third-party mediator in a meeting between the manager and the employee to help them discuss the conflict and come to a mutually agreeable resolution without formal action.


5.
A supervisor wants to create a hybrid position by combining duties from two different job series to meet a new mission requirement. They have drafted a new position description (PD) and ask you to review it and provide advice on its viability before they submit it for classification. What is your most appropriate course of action?
 Compare the new PD to existing PDs within the district to see if a similar position already exists, and if not, advise the manager that creating a hybrid role is often difficult and may not be approved by HR.
 Analyze the proposed duties against OPM's classification standards for both job series, identify the primary purpose of the position to determine the correct series, and advise the manager on potential revisions to ensure a classifiable PD.
 Advise the manager to identify which of the two job series offers a higher potential grade for the employee and then rewrite the position description to emphasize those specific duties above all of the others.
 Approve the PD as drafted by the supervisor, since they are the expert on their mission requirements, and immediately initiate an RPA to have the new hybrid position formally classified and established.
 Review the PD for administrative correctness and forward it to the classification specialist at the CHRSC for a preliminary opinion, informing the manager that the final decision rests with the classification experts.


6.
A manager wants to reward a high-performing GS-11 employee with a promotion. However, the employee's current position is classified with a full performance level of GS-11. The manager asks for your advice on how to get them promoted to a GS-12. What is the most appropriate advice?
 Tell the manager you can process a "desk-side audit" by simply adding a few GS-12 level keywords to the PD and resubmitting it to HR, which will automatically trigger the system to approve the upgrade.
 Recommend the manager rewrite the employee's current position description to include more complex tasks and then submit it for reclassification, while cautioning that an upgrade is not guaranteed by the process.
 Advise the manager that a promotion requires either competing for a higher-graded position or reclassifying the current one, which would necessitate adding significant, higher-level duties and a formal desk audit.
 Advise the manager to give the employee a Quality Step Increase (QSI) and a large performance award as a way to provide a financial reward for their excellent work without changing their official grade.
 Suggest the manager look for an open GS-12 vacancy within the district to which the employee could be reassigned, and then work to backfill their current GS-11 position with a new recruitment action.


7.
A new Department of Defense instruction on civilian telework eligibility has just been released. The instruction provides broad guidance but requires individual commands to establish their own specific procedures. As the Workforce Management Specialist, what is your first step in developing supplemental guidance for your district?
 Send an email to all supervisors summarizing the key changes in the new DoD instruction and directing them to implement the new telework policies as they see fit for their individual teams and functions.
 Draft a supplemental policy based on your interpretation of the DoD instruction and how it best applies to the district's workforce, then circulate the draft policy to senior leadership for their review and comment.
 Research how other similar federal agencies or districts are implementing the new instruction and adopt the best practices you find from their policies to create a new supplemental guide for your district.
 Wait for the Pacific Ocean Division (POD) headquarters to issue its own supplemental guidance, and then simply forward that document to all district employees and managers without any local modifications.
 Form a working group with key stakeholders, including managers, union representatives, and IT staff, to analyze the new instruction in the context of the district's mission and draft supplemental local procedures.


8.
District leadership has requested a detailed report on hiring timeliness and supervisory ratios for the past fiscal year to inform next year's workforce plan. This requires pulling data from three different automated systems (DCPDS, USA Staffing, and a local tracking spreadsheet). What is your most effective approach?
 Generate the standard, pre-formatted reports available from both DCPDS and USA Staffing, and then manually cross-reference them with the local spreadsheet to write a narrative summary of the findings for leadership.
 Pull the requested data from each of the three systems, submit the three separate raw data files to leadership, and include a brief cover memo explaining what information is contained within each of the files.
 Extract raw data from all three systems, consolidate it into a single database for analysis, validate the data for accuracy, and then generate a summary report with visualizations that highlight key trends and discrepancies.
 Delegate the task of pulling the data to an administrative assistant, asking them to compile all the information into one large spreadsheet and then forward that spreadsheet to you for a quick final review.
 Inform leadership that the systems do not integrate, and therefore it is not possible to generate a single, unified report that accurately combines the data on hiring timeliness and supervisory ratios.


9.
The regional Human Resources office is conducting an audit and has requested detailed background data on all non-competitive hiring actions and recruitment incentives (bonuses) issued in your district over the past three years. The deadline is in one week. What is your best course of action?
 Perform a keyword search in your email archives and shared folders for terms like "bonus" and "direct hire" to locate the relevant approval documents and compile the information from those scattered sources.
 Query the relevant personnel databases (e.g., DCPDS) to gather the initial data, cross-reference it with RPA historical files to ensure accuracy, and compile a validated, detailed report that directly answers the audit questions.
 Provide the HR office with a list of all employees hired in the last three years and let them determine which ones were hired non-competitively, as they have more direct access to the official personnel records.
 Inform the HR office that such historical data is not readily available and that fulfilling the request would require a manual file search that cannot be completed by their one-week deadline for the audit.
 Forward the request to all division managers, asking them to provide you with the names and details of any employees in their sections who were hired non-competitively or received a bonus in the last three years.


10.
A division within your district is being reorganized to align with a new mission. A manager from the division asks for your help in structuring their new team. They need to make decisions about the number of supervisors, team lead roles, and the grade structure of the non-supervisory positions. What is your most effective approach?
 Facilitate a position management review session with the manager to analyze the new mission's functions, then advise on an organizational structure that ensures proper supervisory ratios and career progression.
 Advise the manager to first draft a proposed organizational chart, and then meet with you to review the proposal for compliance with standard position management principles and district policies.
 Focus only on the supervisory positions, advising the manager to keep the supervisory ratio below the district's maximum allowed limit, and let them structure the non-supervisory roles as they see fit.
 Provide the manager with copies of organizational charts from other divisions in the district that have similar functions, suggesting they use those successful models as a template for their new team structure.
 Tell the manager to create whatever organizational structure they believe is best, and you will then create the necessary position descriptions and RPAs to implement their desired structure without question.


11.
Your analysis of RPA tracking data reveals that the average time to fill a position has increased by 30% over the last six months, with significant delays occurring during the manager's resume review phase. You need to develop a plan to address this efficiency issue. What is the most effective first step?
 Send a district-wide email to all hiring managers that includes the data on the delays and reminds them of the importance of timely reviews for securing top talent in a competitive job market.
 Develop and propose a new district-wide policy that establishes clear timelines for each stage of the hiring process, including a mandatory 5-day deadline for managers to complete their resume reviews.
 Create a training module on "Efficient and Effective Resume Review" and offer to conduct sessions for all hiring managers in the district to help them improve their speed and selection accuracy.
 Implement a new procedure where you automatically forward the top ten candidates on every certificate directly to the interview stage if the manager fails to provide feedback within a 48-hour period.
 Schedule meetings with the managers who have the longest delays to understand their specific challenges and barriers, and then use this information to develop targeted solutions or training interventions.


12.
The District Commander is considering implementing a student loan repayment program to attract and retain engineers but is concerned about the cost and effectiveness. She asks you to conduct a study to provide a recommendation. What is the best approach for this study?
 Compile a report summarizing all the available recruitment and retention incentives authorized for federal agencies, including student loan repayment, and present this list of options to the Commander.
 Research OPM regulations for the program, analyze district turnover and recruitment data for engineers, benchmark with other agencies, and present a cost-benefit analysis to inform the Commander's decision.
 Immediately begin drafting the policy and procedures for implementing a student loan repayment program, assuming that the Commander's interest in the topic is a directive to proceed with the program.
 Advise the Commander that such incentives are fiscally irresponsible in the current budget climate and recommend that the district focus on non-monetary rewards to attract and retain its engineering talent.
 Survey the district's current engineering workforce to gauge their interest in a student loan repayment program and use the results of the survey as the primary basis for your final recommendation.


13.
A workforce analysis reveals that 40% of your district's budget analysts are eligible to retire within the next three years, creating a significant competency gap. You are tasked with formulating a plan to address this deficiency. What is the most comprehensive plan?
 Recommend offering a retention bonus to all retirement-eligible budget analysts to incentivize them to postpone their retirement for at least two years, giving the district more time to find replacements.
 Develop a multi-year succession plan that includes targeted recruitment for entry-level analysts, creation of developmental positions, and knowledge transfer initiatives from the retiring subject matter experts.
 Begin creating a series of vacancy announcements for budget analyst positions that you can post on USA Staffing as soon as the employees submit their retirement paperwork to the human resources office.
 Consolidate the duties of the retiring analysts and redistribute their workload among the remaining staff members, arguing that this will increase efficiency and save the district money on salaries.
 Propose an aggressive recruitment plan to hire experienced, senior-level budget analysts from other agencies or the private sector to replace the employees who are projected to retire in the near future.


14.
As the quality control officer, you are performing a final review on a high-priority recruitment package for a senior leadership position. You discover that the selection criteria provided to the interview panel were different from the criteria listed in the official job announcement. The selection has already been made. What is your most appropriate action?
 Correct the criteria in the recruitment package to match the job announcement before forwarding it, making a note in the file that you corrected a minor administrative error in the paperwork for consistency.
 Immediately halt the processing of the selection, document the discrepancy, and elevate the issue to the selecting official and legal counsel to determine if the action is defensible or requires a new panel.
 Process the selection package as is, but include a personal note to the HR office pointing out the discrepancy so that they are aware of the issue when they conduct their final review of the hiring action.
 Disregard the discrepancy, as the selecting official has the authority to determine the best candidate for the position, and your role as a quality control officer is only to check for spelling and grammar errors.
 Contact the selecting official to inform them of the discrepancy and advise them to write a memorandum for the record that justifies the use of the different criteria during the interview and selection process.


15.
A new, complex personnel directive regarding special pay rates for certain technical occupations has been issued by headquarters. You must draft supplemental instructions for its implementation within the district. The directive is ambiguous on several key points of eligibility. What is your most effective course of action?
 Issue interim guidance for the district that implements the clear portions of the directive, while noting that further clarification on the ambiguous eligibility points is pending from the headquarters level.
 Schedule a meeting with senior managers in the district to discuss the ambiguous points and come to a consensus on a local interpretation that you will then use to write the final supplemental instructions.
 Draft the supplemental instructions, clearly identifying the ambiguous areas, and formally request a policy interpretation from headquarters before you finalize and issue the guidance to district managers.
 Write the supplemental instructions based on your own best interpretation of the ambiguous language, and include a disclaimer that the policy may be subject to change upon further clarification from headquarters.
 Do not draft any supplemental instructions and instead forward the original, ambiguous directive from headquarters to all managers, telling them to implement it as they see fit for their own employees.


16.
Your district has just been assigned a large, unexpected project, leading to a sudden increase in workload for the engineering division. Simultaneously, two senior engineers have announced their resignations. You must conduct an immediate on-board strength analysis. What is the purpose of this analysis?

 To begin the recruitment process for the two vacant engineering positions by preparing the necessary RPAs and job announcements to backfill the roles as quickly as possible with qualified candidates.
 To generate a report that shows the impact of the new project on the engineering division's budget, specifically calculating the overtime costs required for the current staff to meet the new demands.
 To assess the current gap between workload requirements and workforce capacity, identify critical skill shortages, and provide data-driven recommendations for immediate hiring or contractual support.
 To inform the engineering division manager that they are now understaffed and must revise their project timelines to account for the loss of personnel and the increased workload from the new project.
 To quickly update the district's manpower reports and organizational charts to reflect the recent resignations and ensure that the official record of on-board strength is accurate and up to date.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙