Position Title
Student Trainee (Park Guide)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHO-26-13061685-PA-MFT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Pathways Internship
Are you currently a student who has been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited educational program (including career or technical education programs)? 
Enrollment is with a qualifying educational institution (such as a high school or state-approved homeschool; or accredited technical or vocational school; a 2- or 4-year college or university; a graduate or professional school; or a post-secondary home school curriculum) or a qualifying career or technical education program, and you may also qualify if you are enrolled or accepted in a career or technical education program (such as a Registered Apprenticeship Program, Job Corps, Climate Corps, AmeriCorps, or Peace Corp). If AmeriCorps or similar, you are required to fulfill at least 1700 work hours within a twelve (12) month period. The career or technical education program must be at least one year in length and award a recognized post-secondary credential, and
If currently enrolled in a degree or certificate program, you must be in good academic standing, and
You must continue to meet these eligibility requirements throughout the duration of your appointment under the Pathways Internship Program.
If hired into a Career Intern position, the duties of this position should be related to your academic or career goals. 
For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students. Note: you must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status and if applicable, future enrollment information.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.

 Yes
 No


From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that best describes how your background meets the requirements for the position.  Read all responses before making your selection.   You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire.  YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.


Driver's License: This position requires the incumbent to possess and maintain a valid state driver's license for the duration of the appointment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to hold and maintain a valid state driver's license throughout their employment. If selected, prior to entering on duty you will need to provide a copy of your valid driver's license before your appointment. Do you currently have a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


Minimum Qualification GS-4


3.
Please select one response from the choices below to show how you meet the minimum qualification requirement at the GS-4 grade level.
 I have at least six (6) months of General Experience and six (6) months of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the GS-03 level. General Experience is (1) Any type of work that demonstrates the ability to perform the work of the position, or (2) experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the occupation. Specialized Experience includes: oral presentations of historical, scientific, or program information to groups; assisting in developing and/or revising technical, historical, or scientific information for oral presentation to groups; assisting in presenting interpretive or educational programs; work as a park guide answering visitors questions that are routine and factual such as location of campgrounds and picnic areas, and selling permits; tour leader; docent; museum or observatory guide; teaching assistant; or other similar work.  (Excess specialized experience can be substituted for general experience; but excess general experience cannot be substituted for required specialized experience).  NOTE: Your resume must include sufficient detail (e.g., complete begin/end dates, work schedule, duties performed, etc.) for each time frame for consideration.
 I have completed 2 academic years of post-high school leading to an associate’s degree or equivalent degree in a discipline/academic program related to the position. Note: Transcripts required.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience as described above. To determine if you qualify based on a combination of education and experience, determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the above requirement; then determine your education as a percentage of the above requirement. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for GS-4. NOTE: Transcripts required, and your resume must contain sufficient information, e.g., complete begin/end dates, hours worked per week, duties performed, etc., for each period of work for consideration to meet this standard.
 I do not meet the requirements of A, B, or C above.


Minimum Qualification GS-5


4.
Please select one response from the choices below to show how you meet the minimum qualification requirement at the GS-5 grade level.
 I have one year of specialized experience comparable to the GS-4 level or higher in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors).  Specialized Experience includes: oral presentations of historical, scientific, or program information to groups; developing and/or revising technical, historical, or scientific information for oral presentation to groups; assisting in presenting interpretive or educational programs; Park Guide or tour leader; naturalist; environmental educator or teacher; or other similar work.  NOTE: Your resume must include sufficient detail (e.g., complete begin/end dates, work schedule, duties performed, etc.) for each time frame for consideration.
 I have completed 4 academic years of post-high school study leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree (as determined by the educational institution attending) in a discipline/academic program related to the position. Note: Transcripts required.
 I have equivalent combinations post-high school education and specialized experience as described above.  For GS-05 levels positions, only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours in a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. Two full academic years of study, or 60 semester hours, beyond the second year is equivalent to 1 year of specialized experience. Determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the year of specialized experience required at the GS-05 level. Then determine your education as a percentage of the education that meets the requirements for the GS-05. Add the two percentages together. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify for the GS-05 based on a combination. NOTE: Transcripts required, and your resume must contain sufficient information, e.g., complete begin/end dates, hours worked per week, duties performed, etc., for each period of work for consideration to meet this standard.
 I do not meet requirements in a A, B, or C above.


Certification Statement


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙