Position Title
POWER PLANT OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13034952-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of a journey-level Power Plant operator including complex generator operations in a hydro-power generating plant of 2500 megawatt or greater power generating capacity. I am skilled in coordinating complex switching tasks with other journeyman operators and have restored a hydro-power turbine generator to service after a major overhaul in a 2400 megawatt or greater power plant with initiative, independence, competence, and without requirement for supervisory check or guidance. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of a journey-level Power Plant Operator in hydro-power generating plant of at least 2500 megawatt generation capability. I am skilled in coordinating routine generator start and stop tasks for normal operations and have restored a 12 1/2 megawatt or larger turbine generator to service after major overhaul in an 2000 megawatt or larger power plant without being checked by my supervisor. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common journey-level Power Plant Operator duties in a power producing plant such as hydropower, fossil fuels (such as coal, oil, and natural gas), nuclear, solar, and/or wind. I can restore a station service generator or main generator to service after routine maintenance, corrective maintenance, or after a major overhaul in a power plant. I can respond to system plant or disturbances with minimal supervision. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of a journey-level operator but I require frequent supervisory guidance and inspection where major generating equipment is involved, or I have received training on power production.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙