Position Title
DEPUTY LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT OFFICER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-128304747-AR-26-002 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants ONLY. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you Officer in the grades of O4 - O5?
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O4 - O5.
 No. I am not Officer in the grades of O4 - O5.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions fully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education or training identifying activities involving logistical support operations; Experience integrating the actions of a variety of specialized support activities in order to develop a comprehensive logistics plan; Experience monitoring such functions as program planning, resource and fiscal management, training, manpower management, and/or automated data processing to meet the logistic plan; Experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions; Experience working with people from various levels and backgrounds to elicit their cooperation to perform specific tasks, and complying with regulations, laws, or practices; Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed; Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?
 Yes
 No


2.
Describe your experience in developing and implementing logistics policies and procedures. Provide an example of a logistics program you managed, including how you assessed its effectiveness and made improvements to meet mission goals.


3.
Explain your approach to preparing and managing logistics budgets. How have you prioritized logistics requirements to maximize readiness, and what tools or methods have you used to analyze impacts on federal fund allocations?


4.
Discuss your experience in supervising a diverse workforce. How do you plan, assign, and evaluate work among subordinate supervisors to ensure efficient logistics operations? Provide an example of how you resolved a significant issue that arose within your team.


5.
Outline your experience in logistical mobilization and readiness planning for military units. What strategies have you employed to identify key issues in readiness plans, and how did you ensure effective coordination for deployment and redeployment operations?


6.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position,


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙