Position Title
Teacher Supervisor (Supervisor of Education)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
MXR-26-13057856 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


2.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


3.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position.

A. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction.

OR

B. I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria.

OR

C. I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.

Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A.
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B.
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C.
 No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C.


NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.

Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
This assessment evaluates your knowledge and ability to perform the essential competencies required for the Supervisor of Education position. Read each scenario carefully and select the response that represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Each question has one best answer.


1.
You are the Supervisor of Education at a Federal Prison Camp and have been tasked with addressing multiple audiences this month. The Warden has requested you present updated literacy program statistics at the monthly Executive Staff meeting. Additionally, you need to conduct the education portion of Admission and Orientation for 30 newly arrived inmates, brief your teaching staff on new assessment procedures during their professional development day, and meet with a community college representative about establishing a partnership for vocational programs. You must prioritize how you will approach these various communication responsibilities.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?

 Focus primarily on the one-on-one meeting with the community college representative and send email summaries to the Executive Staff and teaching staff, while having your lead teacher conduct the inmate A&O session, as individual conversations are more impactful than group presentations.
 Personally present the literacy statistics to Executive Staff with data-driven recommendations, conduct the full Admission and Orientation session for the incoming inmates, lead the professional development training for your teaching staff on the new procedures, and meet with the community college representative to discuss partnership opportunities.
 Delegate the Executive Staff presentation to your most senior teacher, conduct the inmate orientation yourself, send written instructions to staff about the new assessment procedures, and schedule a phone call with the community college representative to save time.
 Attend the Executive Staff meeting to answer questions if needed but have your assistant present the statistics, conduct a brief inmate orientation covering only essential rules, hold a short staff meeting about the new procedures, and invite the community college representative to tour the facility without a formal meeting.
 None of the above.


2.
During an operational review at your institution, auditors identified deficiencies in your Education Department's security procedures for GED testing materials and raised concerns about inconsistent implementation of the literacy program across different shifts. As Supervisor of Education, you must respond to these audit findings. The response will be reviewed by the Warden, Regional Education Administrator, and will become part of the official institutional record. You need to prepare written documentation addressing the audit findings, your corrective action plan, and any policy clarifications needed for your staff.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?

 Draft a brief corrective action plan for your department addressing the GED security procedures and ask your senior teacher to review it before submitting it to your supervisor for final approval and distribution.
 Write and submit a detailed memorandum to the Warden and Regional Education Administrator that includes your formal written responses to all audit findings, explains the root causes of the deficiencies, outlines specific corrective actions with implementation timelines, and establishes updated local policies for test security and program consistency that will be distributed to all department heads.
 Prepare an internal departmental memo to your education staff explaining the new security procedures for testing materials, contribute sections to the institutional audit response being compiled by the Associate Warden, and update your local GED testing policy with input from your teachers.
 Send an email to your immediate supervisor summarizing the audit concerns, develop a one-page corrective action plan outline, and post a notice in the staff break room about the new testing security requirements.
 None of the above.


3.
As the Supervisor of Education, you manage five full-time teachers, two part-time vocational instructors, and three education technicians. It is the beginning of the fiscal year, and you need to ensure your staff is performing effectively and developing professionally. Teacher Martinez needs improvement in classroom management, Vocational Instructor Johnson has requested training in new welding certification standards, Education Technician Williams has consistently exceeded expectations and seeks advancement opportunities, and Teacher Davis requires quarterly performance feedback as scheduled. Additionally, you must organize daily work assignments to cover literacy classes, GED instruction, ESL programs, vocational training, and the learning resource center while two staff members are on annual leave.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?

 Meet with Teacher Davis to provide the required quarterly performance feedback, create and distribute the daily work assignment schedule for all staff that covers all program areas during the leave period, develop a professional development training plan for the fiscal year that includes classroom management coaching for Martinez and welding certification training for Johnson, and discuss career advancement opportunities and development goals with Williams.
 Send an email to all staff outlining their general responsibilities for the quarter, post a weekly schedule showing who will cover which classes during the staff absences, suggest that Martinez observe a more experienced teacher's classroom, and recommend that Williams and Johnson research their own training opportunities online.
 Hold a monthly team meeting where you provide general feedback to the entire group, ask senior staff members to create their own schedules and mentor newer employees, and tell Martinez, Johnson, and Williams to submit written requests if they want specific feedback or training opportunities.
 Review and approve timesheets for all staff members, provide written feedback to Teacher Davis on their most recent lesson plan, coordinate with Martinez to jointly supervise a challenging student group, and serve on the institution's education committee to stay informed about training opportunities.
 None of the above.


4.
Your institution has experienced declining GED pass rates over the past two quarters, dropping from 72% to 58%. The Regional Office has requested an analysis of your education program's effectiveness. You have access to the Management Analysis Portal (MAP) which contains data from all institutions in your region, historical student assessment records in your local database, budget expenditure reports for educational materials, curriculum documents from the past three years, and staffing assignment logs. The Warden expects you to provide a comprehensive analysis with recommendations for program improvement within two weeks.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate analytical approach in this situation?

 Ask your lead teacher to compile a list of students who failed the GED exam, request that your education technician organize all the assessment records by test section, maintain your cost center budget tracking to ensure funds are available for any recommended changes, and provide this collected information to the Warden for decision-making.
 Review the past two years of student assessment records to identify trends, generate computer program database rosters that break down GED performance by demographic factors and instructional hours, access MAP to compare your institution's pass rates and instructional approaches with similar facilities in the region, conduct a comprehensive curriculum review to ensure compliance with current GED standards, and develop evidence-based recommendations for instructional modifications and resource reallocation.
 Gather student attendance records and test scores from the past quarter, assist your senior teacher in creating spreadsheets showing the declining pass rates, help compile responses to questions about curriculum coverage, and work with your staff to review budget expenditures from the previous fiscal year to identify potential areas for investment.
 Generate standard monthly reports showing enrollment and completion statistics, compare your current pass rates to your institution's historical averages, survey your teaching staff about challenges they are experiencing in the classroom, and compile their suggestions into a summary report for the Warden.
 None of the above.


5.
Your institution is implementing a new initiative to address the needs of an increasingly diverse student population. You have 45 inmates over age 60 who struggle with traditional classroom technology, 80 ESL students from 12 different language backgrounds with varying literacy levels, 30 students with learning disabilities who have repeatedly failed the GED, and 25 students interested in advanced occupational training but lacking foundational skills. The Regional Education Administrator has asked you to develop specialized programming to address these distinct populations while maintaining your core literacy and GED programs. You must determine how to structure these programs, identify appropriate instructional methodologies, secure necessary resources, and ensure your staff has the expertise to implement them effectively.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate demonstration of educational program knowledge in this situation?

 Contact speakers and subject matter experts who could present at special events for each population group, gather program interest surveys from the inmates to demonstrate need, update the existing tutor training program to include information about diverse learners, and participate in planning the annual education recognition ceremony highlighting these special programs.
 Request specialized resources such as large-print materials for older students, bilingual dictionaries for ESL learners, and assistive technology for students with learning disabilities, make recommendations to the Warden for establishing special programs targeting geriatric and ESL student groups, and coordinate the development of staff training focused on differentiated instruction for special populations and advanced occupational skills instruction.
 Work with your lead teachers to instruct them in specialized teaching techniques for diverse learners, collaborate with the curriculum development team to create modified instructional materials for each population group, help plan and facilitate a regional education conference where these specialized programs will be showcased, and assist in establishing and updating the occupational education program structure to include prerequisite skill-building components.
 Observe successful programs at other institutions and adapt their materials, assign your most experienced teachers to work with the challenging student populations, increase the availability of computer-based learning programs that offer multiple difficulty levels, and schedule additional class sections to reduce student-teacher ratios for specialized instruction.
 None of the above.


6.
You have been selected as the Supervisor of Education at a facility that is transitioning from a medium-security institution to a Federal Prison Camp. The education department must be restructured to serve 300 inmates, 60% of whom require mandatory literacy programming, 25% need ESL instruction, and the remaining population seeks vocational and post-secondary education opportunities. Currently, there is no formal schedule for educational programming, the vocational shop has been closed for two years, and there are no established occupational or apprenticeship training partnerships. You have four months to develop and implement a comprehensive education program that meets all federal requirements for literacy and ESL, establishes at least two vocational training programs, provides post-secondary education access, and includes a job skills readiness component. You must create the program structure, develop curriculum objectives, establish schedules, and coordinate with external partners.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate program planning and organization approach in this situation?

 Create a master schedule that assigns students to mandatory literacy and ESL classes based on their assessment scores, input student preferences for elective courses to improve participation, implement a special learning event such as a career fair to introduce vocational opportunities, plan an educational field trip to a local vocational training center to expose students to occupational options, and utilize student feedback to refine the program after the first semester.
 Establish comprehensive education program objectives and curriculum standards for all required components including literacy/GED, ESL, vocational, and occupational programs, survey the inmate population to identify vocational interests and post-secondary goals for course offerings, assist the Warden in developing new instructional techniques and assessment methods that will improve learning outcomes and test performance, and coordinate with your Regional Education Administrator to align your program structure with Bureau of Prisons requirements.
 Develop a detailed implementation schedule for mandatory literacy programs, ESL instruction at multiple proficiency levels, two vocational training programs (culinary arts and building trades), an apprenticeship program in partnership with the Department of Labor, job skills readiness assessment protocols, and post-secondary education enrollment procedures, work with your supervisor and regional office to plan and establish the new program structure, personally establish a newly developed vocational program by securing equipment and instructor certifications, and create curriculum scope and sequence documents for all program areas.
 Meet with each inmate individually to assess their educational needs and interests, research vocational training programs offered at similar facilities and request permission to replicate them, hire or reassign staff with vocational expertise, develop a phased implementation plan starting with mandatory programs and adding vocational options in year two, and establish partnerships with local community colleges for post-secondary access.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙