Position Title
MEDICAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12883702-AF-26-100 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with membership in the Tennessee Air National Guard?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3). For Lateral requests blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration? Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 36 months or 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions? Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.specialized. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe an experience in managing a mass casualty event or other medical emergency.


3a.
What are some essential rolls and how would you coordinate with other emergency services and higher headquarters to ensure an effective response?


4.
Explain a possible conflict between two members of your team or between your unit and another department.


4a.
As a Senior Officer or supervisor, what approach would you take?


5.
Describe different healthcare information systems.


5a.
How can data and analytics improve healthcare delivery, operational efficiency, or patient outcomes?


6.
How do you approach communicating complex medical information to non-medical leaders or to the public?


6a.
Provide an example of a time you had to do this effectively.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙