Position Title
Marine Machinery Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12956510-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
10
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Marine Machinery Mechanic position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Marine Machinery Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Marine Machinery Mechanic duties. I am skilled in directing and scheduling comprehensive fleet maintenance operations, making critical independent decisions at remote sites to keep floating plant operational, and coordinating complex budget and logistic activities with other district elements. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks of Marine Machinery Mechanic duties. I am skilled in managing Preventive Maintenance Programs using automated systems, estimate repair costs, requisition parts, and make on-site decisions to improvise emergency repairs at remote locations without immediate support. I maintain current and accurate records of operation, malfunctions, repairs, modifications, etc. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks of Marine Machinery Mechanic duties. I am skilled in complex mechanical failures, tearing down and completely overhauling marine internal engines, and using detailed mechanical/electrical drawings to complete repairs and/or other related equipment aboard floating plants. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks of Marine Machinery Mechanic duties. I am skilled in troubleshooting mechanical issues and other related equipment aboard floating plants and interpreting standard drawings. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple engine repair tasks, or I have received training in this type of work.
 I do not have on-the-job training or the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙