Position Title
Prosthetic Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13007676-26-KH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Prosthetic Representative. The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-11. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-05 to GS-11. 

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:
GS-05:  None beyond basic requirements

GS-07: 

Ability to understand and apply processes, procedures, regulations, and laws as it applies to purchasing and the provision of prosthetic items/services.
Ability to coordinate multiple requests for durable medical equipment (DME), including repairs, services, and benefits.
Ability to act as a liaison with and work effectively with health care providers, patients, caregivers and vendors to ensure that the most appropriate device and services are received timely.
Ability to monitor contractors and vendors for compliance with contract requirements.
GS-09:
Knowledge of methods to identify trends and causation factors sufficient to analyze prepared data and gather information to inform and advise management.
Ability to organize, prioritize, and monitor actions to ensure timeliness.
Ability to understand and articulate the benefits program options available. This includes communicating with patients, caregivers, health care providers and vendors.
Ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations.
Ability to work effectively with a clinical team and provide recommendations for prosthetic devices.
GS-11:
Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.
Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work.
Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels.
Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns.
Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements. (See paragraph 2.g. above)



Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
 



1.
Basic Requirements (Experience and Education). Individual must meet at least one of the requirements below.
 Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team.
 Education. A bachelor’s degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.
 I have equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
 Grandfathering Provision: All persons employed in VHA as a Prosthetic Representative on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 No, I do not meet either of these options.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GRADE DETERMINATION: GS-07, Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, and the GS-7 KSAs, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled.  GS 5 assignment: Assignments at this grade level are entry level trainee in nature where the individual receives developmental assignments designed to build upon the base knowledge, skills, and abilities. At this level, the Prosthetic Representative receives training and instruction to develop proficiency in essential occupational tasks. The work is performed under close supervision.

Do you meet this for the GS-7?
 Yes
 No


3.
GRADE DETERMINATION: GS 9, Experience or Education: In addition to the basic requirements, and GS-9 KSAs

Experience:  one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled.

GS 7 Assignment.: At this level, responsibilities include interaction with Veterans, caregivers, and clinical staff by answering questions related to benefit programs such as automobile adaptive equipment, home improvement and structural alterations, and clothing allowance programs. Assignments include developmental duties involving more complex work performed under supervision. The Prosthetic Representative addresses questions about the provision of prosthetic items, home care equipment, benefits or service issues, to include discharge planning requirements. The employee ensures requests for items or services are complete and received in accordance with established timeframes. Work may include authorizing and preparing purchase orders for a wide variety of prosthetic and orthotic devices, medical supplies and home medical equipment and repairs. For orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, they may conduct market research, price history review, complete justification and approval, and submit to the contracting department. They ensure correct Healthcare Common Procedure Codes are entered into the appropriate database(s). They ensure surgical implants are Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved; shipped to retain product integrity; delivered to correct location; and received before for the surgical procedure. They collaborate with clinical staff when devices and equipment requires repair or replacement and takes necessary actions to resolve issues.

OR

Education: Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours may include, but is not limited to, any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.

Do you meet the Education or Experience listed above for the GS-9?
 I meet the experience requirement of 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level.
 I meet the education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution.
 None of the above apply to me.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GRADE DETERMINATION: GS-11, Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, and GS-11 KSAs, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled.

GS 9 Assignment: The Prosthetic Representative works directly with Veterans and clinical teams to assist with applications for benefits related to benefit programs such as automobile adaptive equipment, home improvement and structural alterations, and clothing allowance programs. The employee ensures devices, equipment, and services, are based on the patient's rehabilitative and medical needs. They work closely with the treatment team in development of prescriptions and provide technical assistance and guidance to assist in planning and coordination to obtain equipment, services, and benefits. The Prosthetic Representative conducts home visits, in collaboration with other healthcare providers to determine if requested equipment is appropriate or can be installed in the home. They are familiar with national, VISN, and facility contracts that apply to Prosthetics and Sensory Aids Service (PSAS), and responsible for providing management with documentation pertaining to contract compliance issues or concerns. This includes working with clinical staff to create quality improvement reports. They work closely with the clinical teams to assist in identifying products available on contract that meet the medical needs of patients. Duties are typically performed independently with minimal supervision. Prosthetics representatives have knowledge and the ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations. They analyze and interpret data for trends and provide guidance to improve quality assurance, policies, and procedures.

Do you meet the Education or Experience listed above for the GS-11?
 Yes
 No


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
 
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙