Position Title
Locksmith Worker
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU-26-12924016-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 40 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires incumbent to work an on-call work schedule to respond to after-hours emergencies. This may include, evenings, nights, weekends, and holidays. Are you willing to work an on-call work schedule to respond to after-hours emergencies. This may include, evenings, nights, weekends, and holidays?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Locksmith Worker position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Locksmith Worker duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance, overhaul, and repair of standard types of mechanical locking devices such as mortise, rim, key-in-the knob, deadbolt, office equipment, padlocks, and emergency exit locks. I am skilled in performing duties such as opening locks when keys are missing, removing broken keys from keyways, disassembling, performing operational checks, visually checking parts for wear and defects, cleaning and replacing parts, reassembling, and reinstalling locking devices. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of visual and operational checks to locate sources of trouble and determine the best method for opening malfunctioning locking devices. I am skilled in disassembling items to detect worn or damaged parts, i.e., broken springs, jammed pins, bent discs, broken tail pieces, rust, and corrosion. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties such as lubricating and cleaning parts with appropriate lubricants and solvents; straighten bent parts; smooth burrs and scratches; replace defective parts; perform operational tests; and/or reinstall locking devices. I can perform installation of locking mechanisms, or rekeying of locking devices. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple installation of locking mechanisms in doors or I have received training on rekeying of locking devices.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙