Position Title
SOLICITOR
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26ES13040396NC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


2.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


3.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response which most closely and accurately describes your professional experience and demonstrates your technical ability to perform as NLRB Solicitor in the Senior Executive Service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience that has equipped me with the professional/technical qualifications required to successfully perform the duties of the position, which includes: (1) knowledge of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, Fair Labor Standards Act, Administrative Procedure Act and State labor relations laws and; (2) comprehensive knowledge of the Board's Rules and Regulations and Statements of Procedures, organization and functions of the Agency, Board and Court decisions, Federal Rules and Practices in District Courts, Courts of Appeals, and Supreme Court and; (3) knowledge of legal procedures governing hearings and rules of evidence, and (4) possession of the managerial skill and ability to develop, coordinate, and administer Agency programs, policies and objectives.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


2.
In order to be considered for this position, you must certify your Bar membership is in good standing.
 I certify that I am an active member of the Bar in good standing (not disbarred or suspended anywhere) of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution. I have provided proof of my active bar certification.
 I am not an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for
this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙