Position Title
Occupational Therapist (Clinical Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12936092-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Occupational Therapist (Clinical Therapist)- GS-063-13 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements
To qualify for appointment as an Occupational Therapist, all applicants must possess the following:


English Proficiency
Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).


Citizenship
Must be a citizen of the United States. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7407(a).


1.
Education and/or Experience
The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy AND two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
Note: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy; or
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy AND two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; or
Note: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
Individuals must be graduates of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This includes an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.

Please select the appropriate answer based on your level of experience and/or education.
 Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy AND two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist (Copy of valid transcripts is required at time application is submitted).
 Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy AND two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field. (Copy of valid transcripts is required at time application is submitted).
 Master’s Degree or higher in occupational therapy. (Copy of valid transcripts is required at time application is submitted).
 I do not possess any of the educational and/or experience requirements listed above.


Foreign Graduates
Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the education requirements if they have a current, full, active, and unrestricted license referred to in the certification section of this announcement.


2.
Certification
Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist. (Copy of valid certification is required at time of application)

Do you possess a current NBCOT certification?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
State Licensure
Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. (Copy of valid license is required at time of application)

Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes.
 No.


Grade Determinations
In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates:


GS 13 Occupational Therapist - Clinical Specialist (Above the full performance)


4.
GS 13 Experience
Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

Do you possess the required length of experience as listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
GS 13 Additional Education, Experience and Licensure. In addition to one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled, one of the following must be met:
A minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area. This time must be within the past five years.
Certification in an area recognized by the AOTA.
Completion of a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area.
An additional advanced degree in a related field.

Please select the which criteria requirement you meet below
 A minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area. This time must be within the past five years. (Information details must be present on resume that is submitted).
 Certification in an area recognized by the AOTA. (Copy of valid certification is required when submitting application).
 Completion of a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area. (verification of fellowship/residency details is required on resume when submitting application).
 An additional advanced degree in a related field. ( If selecting this option a copy of transcripts will be required when submitting application)
 I do not meet any of the additional above requirements.


6.
GS 13 Occupational Therapist - Clinical Specialist Knowledge Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of contemporary occupational therapy across multiple areas of practice.
Ability to provide clinical guidance in the advanced practice area to other OT practitioners.
Knowledge of advanced specialized evaluation, interventions and services to independently develop treatment strategies for area of specialization.
Skill in developing protocols and procedures for intervention programs based on current occupational therapy theory, recent research, and practice.
Ability to provide consultation to other health care practitioners and outside groups about occupational therapy scope of practice for area of specialization.
Ability to implement, revise/update evidence based occupational therapy services and programming in area of specialization.

Do you demonstrate all of the KSA's listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible).
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008).
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙