Position Title
Civil Engineer (Hydraulics)
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-DO-26-CTP-12908539-SN Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


3.
Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.).


4.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.


5.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.


To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Civil Engineer (Hydraulics), GS-0810-14 position with the Bureau of Reclamation. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
GS-14 Choose one answer which best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.

 I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by my current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by successfully passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science and including engineering courses specified in Choice 2.
 I completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision.
 I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirement as described.


2.
GS-14 In addition to meeting basic requirements for engineering positions, choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level to include engineering investigations of rivers and reservoirs for ecosystem restoration, river design, or reservoir sedimentation; field data collection in rivers or reservoirs; numerical modeling of hydraulics and sediment transport in rivers or reservoirs; participation in research related to the physical aspects of rivers or reservoirs; development of river and reservoir engineering analysis tools and guidance; technical review of engineering analyses; and project management; as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience.
 I do not meet the experience requirement as described above.


For each question, select the response(s) that best describe your experience and training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


3.
Select the project management skill(s) you have applied to river hydraulics and sediment transport projects.

 A. Develop study plans that include scope of work, schedules, and cost estimates.
 B. Monitor budgets and schedules to ensure that work is completed on time and within budget.
 C. Completion of project status reports.
 D. Documenting changes to scope or work, schedule, or budget.
 E. Written and oral communications with the team members and clients to keep the project progressing smoothly.
 F. None of the above.


4.
Select the field(s) of study in which you have completed courses from an accredited university or college.

 A. Fluid mechanics
 B. Hydrology
 C. Steady open-channel flow
 D. Unsteady open-channel flow
 E. Geomorphology
 F. Sediment transport
 G. Computer programming
 H. None of the above


5.
Select the response that describes your experience in river hydraulics and sediment transport to form hypotheses related to geomorphic, hydraulic, and sediment transport processes and implementation of related analysis and design.

 I have led or managed teams of engineers, hydrologists, or geologists where river hydraulics and sediment transport hypotheses were formulated, and analysis and design implemented to test those hypotheses.
 I have participated in teams where river hydraulics and sediment transport hypotheses were formulated, and analysis and design implemented to test those hypotheses.
 I have participated in river hydraulics and sediment transport analysis and design but did not form hypotheses.
 I have education in river hydraulics and sediment transport, but I have not yet performed these duties on the job.
 None of the above.


6.
Select the following activities you have performed when working on design and implementation of river or reservoir data collection programs for engineering investigations.

 A. Topographic surveys of river channels and flood-plains
 B. Bathymetric surveys of river channels or reservoirs
 C. River velocity measurements
 D. Geomorphic mapping
 E. Suspended sediment concentration measurements
 F. Bed-load measurements
 G. Bed-material or reservoir sedimentation size gradation measurements
 H. None of the above.


7.
Select the number of complex engineering projects or studies you have managed including scope development, budget tracking, scheduling resources, and client communication.

 More than 15
 10 to 15
 6 to 9
 3 to 5
 1 to 2
 None of the above.


8.
Select the response that best describes your ability to work independently on river hydraulics and sedimentation engineering studies.

 I have performed as a Team Leader or Project Manager on river hydraulics and sedimentation engineering studies and mentored others.
 I have performed river hydraulics and sedimentation engineering analyses independently, completing it with little or no mentoring.
 I have performed river hydraulics and sedimentation engineering analyses under close supervision by a senior employee, supervisor or manager.
 I understand the work processes or methods for completing river hydraulics and sedimentation engineering analyses but have not performed these duties on the job.
 None of the above.


9.
Select the stakeholders, partners, or regulatory agencies to whom you have made river hydraulics or reservoir sedimentation engineering technical presentations.

 A. Federal agency representatives
 B. State agency representatives
 C. Irrigation districts
 D. Local governments
 E. Non-profit organizations
 F. General public or local landowners
 G. None of the above.


10.
Select all responses that describe your ability to present sedimentation or river hydraulics information to others.

 A. I have presented the results of a technical study within my organization to those with a similar technical background.
 B. I have presented the results of a technical study within my organization to those with a different technical background.
 C. I have presented the results of a technical study to an audience with different technical backgrounds.
 D. I have presented the results of a technical study to a workshop, class or conference.
 E. I was an invited speaker for a technical class or conference.
 F. None of the above.


11.
Select the responses that describe your experience with written communication.

 A. I was the primary author of conference proceedings or journal papers related to sediment transport or river engineering.
 B. I was the primary author of comprehensive final reports to clients on the work performed on sedimentation or river hydraulics engineering projects.
 C. I was the secondary author of comprehensive final reports to clients on the work performed on sedimentation or river hydraulics engineering projects.
 D. I have provided peer review on other's writing including providing the final edits to documents that are transmitted to clients or higher management.
 E. None of the above.


12.
Select the technical skill(s) you have applied in geomorphic, hydraulic, or sediment transport processes studies.

 A. Numerical modeling of river hydraulics
 B. Numerical modeling of sediment transport, erosion, and deposition
 C. Geographic Information System mapping for reservoir or river analysis
 D. River designs
 E. Reservoir sedimentation measurements or predictions
 F. Development of sediment management plans for river systems, reservoirs, diversions, or dam removal
 G. Environmental impact assessment related to river channel processes
 H. None of the above


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙