Position Title
Lead Education Training Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13065149K-TSN-1702-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. CA7226 3211 S Northpointe Dr, Fresno, CA
 F. CA0281 1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 G. CO1811 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 H. DC0022 1111 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC
 I. FL0068 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 J. GA0087 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 K. IN1862 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 L. KY2032 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 M. MD0428 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 N. MD0278 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham-Seabrook, MD
 O. MA0137 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 P. MO1937 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 Q. MO0106 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 R. NY6466 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 S. NY0376 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. OH0192 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 U. OR6728 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 V. PA0809 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 W. PA0233 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 X. PR4066 CARR 28 KM 2.0, Bayamon, PR
 Y. TN2709 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 Z. TN0005 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AA. TX2038 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AB. TX1962 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 AC. TX0058 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 AD. UT1428 1973 N Rulon White Blvd, Ogden, UT
 B. UT0036 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 C. VA0088 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 D. WA0101 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 E. WV0273 1250 Edwin Miller Blvd, Martinsburg, WV


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience with learning and education approaches to evaluate viable approaches for meeting organizational objectives for performance improvement; Experience with organizational learning theories and technologies, including management and its business value and use in addressing a wide range of business goals and objectives; Experience with theories of instructional design and the application of performance-centered design to enable business process improvement; Experience using a broad range of performance support tools and techniques to plan and direct the development of system components including on-line help, computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems; Experience in the latest developments in performance support outside the agency to develop and expand performance support systems and their components for Service application.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience with learning and education approaches to evaluate viable approaches for meeting organizational objectives for performance improvement; Experience with organizational learning theories and technologies, including management and its business value and use in addressing a wide range of business goals and objectives; Experience with theories of instructional design and the application of performance-centered design to enable business process improvement; Experience using a broad range of performance support tools and techniques to plan and direct the development of system components including on-line help, computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems; Experience in the latest developments in performance support outside the agency to develop and expand performance support systems and their components for Service application.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above


2.
Which of the following experiences have you had concerning verbal communication?

 A. Taught a virtual or on-line training class
 B. Served as an on the job coach
 C. Facilitated a conversation on training needs
 D. Effectively communicated training policies and strategies to customers
 E. Effectively communicated training policies and strategies to members of the Education Community
 F. Provided constructive feedback to a Subject Matter Expert.
 G. Provided a presentation to manager/customer on the status of a current project.
 H. Provided advice/assistance to peers regarding education policy and practices.
 I. Provided a presentation to senior management or executives
 J. None of the Above


3.
At what levels have you persuaded and influenced others to accept your recommendations or negotiated to find mutually acceptable solutions?
 A. With a coworker
 B. With a manager
 C. With a team as a participant
 D. With a team as a leader
 E. With a client or customer
 F. With an executive
 G. None of the above


4.
Which of the following describes your experience regarding education, training methods, and software applications?
 A. Experience with project management skills
 B. Experience with SharePoint
 C. Experience with TDQAS (Training Development Quality Assurance System) and QASP (Quality Assurance Support Plan) to assess quality assurance for training development.
 D. Experience with ITMS (Integrated Talent Management System) and LCMS (Learning Content Management System) to create, manage, and deliver digital or in-person learning content.
 E. Experience establishing or overseeing a training development support plan.
 F. None of the above


5.
Which of the following systems have you used to develop on-line, virtual, classroom and electronic training products?
 A. SharePoint
 B. Learning Content Management System (LCMS)
 C. Microsoft Teams
 D. Articulate
 E. Captivate
 F. Integrated Talent Management System (ITMS)
 G. None of the above


6.
At what levels do you have experience with teamwork including facilitating cooperation and fostering commitment and team spirit?
 A. I have worked as a member of a team within my workgroup.
 B. I have worked as the team leader of a team within my workgroup.
 C. I have worked on a cross functional team.
 D. I have worked as a cross functional team leader.
 E. I have worked on a team with senior managers or executives as members.
 F. None of the above


7.
Which of the following best describes your experience with planning and evaluating?
 I have organized work and set priorities.
 I have organized work and set priorities for others.
 I have organized work, set priorities, and determined resource requirements.
 I have organized work, set priorities, and determined resource requirements and trained others to complete these tasks.
 None of the above


8.
Which of the following describes your experience?
 A. I have coordinated with other organizations to accomplish goals.
 B. I have determined resource requirements and developed goals and strategies to achieve them.
 C. I have monitored the progress of an initiative and evaluated its outcome.
 D. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience adapting to a dynamic work environment?
 Adapted to significant changes affecting numerous programs when availability of information is limited or unpredictable.
 Made unexpected adjustments to plans in response to situations in which conditions change frequently.
 Responded to immediate temporary changes that effect deadlines.
 Made scheduling adjustments as needed.
 None of the above


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience leading education training technicians, specialists, and/or subject matter experts?
 I have managed an education training technician, specialist, and/or subject matter expert.
 I have managed several education training technicians, specialists, and/or subject matter experts while working on a project.
 I have managed several education training technicians, specialists, and/or subject matter experts including planning and distributing work assignments while working on a project.
 I have managed several education training technicians, specialists, and/or subject matter experts including planning, distributing, and monitoring work assignments and evaluating and providing verbal feedback on their performance.
 None of the above


11.
Which of the following best describes your experience determining the performance needs of clients and customers and developing solutions to mitigate performance gaps?
 I have assessed the performance needs of a group, organization, or occupation to determine performance gaps and produced products or services or made recommendations to resolve performance problems.
 I have provided recommendations to meet group needs or resolve a problem.
 I have provided information or assistance to address an issue.
 I have provided information or assistance to address an issue with assistance from a senior employee or supervisor.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing and resolving conflict to minimize impact to a project or program?
 With supervision I have managed and resolved conflicts, confrontations, or disagreements to minimize impact to a project or program.
 I have independently managed and resolved conflicts, confrontations, or disagreements to minimize impact to a project or program.
 I have led a team where I managed and resolved conflicts, confrontations, or disagreements to minimize impact to a project or program.
 I have led multiple teams where I had to manage and resolve conflicts, confrontations, or disagreements to minimize impact to a project or program.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?

 Yes
 No


14.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙