Position Title
Cybersecurity Specialist
Agency
Railroad Retirement Board
Announcement Number
260048SS-13067674-CS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
1.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Please accurately identify your level of experience and demonstrated capability when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience. Inaccurate or false information may be grounds for not selecting you, withdrawing an offer of employment following acceptance, or for dismissing you from the position after your start date.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best describes your current enrollment status in an accredited trade school, technical or vocational institute, junior college, college, university, or other accredited educational institution.

 I am currently enrolled at least half-time in an accredited educational institution or career or technical education program.
 I am not currently enrolled in an accredited educational institution or career or technical education program.


2.
To be eligible for a student position, you must be at least 16 years of age. Please indicate if you meet this criteria.

 I am at least 16 years old.
 I am 15 years old or younger.


3.
Are you currently in good academic standing as determined by your institution? (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim)

 Yes, I am in good academic standing.
 No, I am not in good academic standing.


4.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙