Position Title
Law Enforcement Officer
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-NPT-LEI-1801-57-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


If you are a current student who will be graduating within the next nine months, please take into consideration that upon graduation you will have successfully completed the required education for your specific degree program. If that education matches those described below for each of the basic qualifications questions, you should answer accordingly. The Recent Graduates Program provides conditional consideration to Recent Graduates who are within nine months of completing their degree. While current students may not have the required education completed at this point in time, it is understood that upon graduation, they will. Final appointments will only be made when all eligibility requirements are met, which will be determined after official graduation and upon review of the official transcripts that include degree information and conferral date.


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? OR,

Are you a veteran who was unable to apply within two years of receiving your qualifying degree or certificate (associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctoral, or vocational/technical degree or certificate) due to military service obligation AND are you within six years from the date the degree or certificate was completed?

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.


 Yes
 No


3.
Please validate your Recent Graduate status.
 I have graduated from an accredited university within the last two years of the closing date of this announcement.
 I am a veteran who was unable to apply within two years of receiving my degree due to my military service obligation. I left the military within the last two years and graduated within the last six years of the closing date of this announcement.
 I am a current student who will be graduating within the next nine months of the closing date of this announcement.
 I do not meet the answers above.


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Yreka, CA
 B. Challis, ID


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
How did you hear about this job opportunity? Please select one and specify if required:
 Other Recruiting Website
 Career Fair
 Newspaper
 Advertisement
 Professional Journal
 Agency Website
 Agency Employee
 Other Federal Agency
 College or University
 Other


5.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Law Enforcement Officer, GL-1801-05/07 position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.


1.
Law Enforcement Firearms: This position authorizes the incumbent to carry a firearm. Any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor of domestic violence cannot lawfully possess a firearm or ammunition (Title 18, U.S.C., Section 922(g)(9)). Candidates under consideration will be required to certify whether they have ever been convicted of such an offense. False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment. Please review each question below and select all response options that applies to you. You must choose at least one response option.
 A. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence within the meaning of the referenced statutes stated above?
 B. Have you ever been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year?
 C. Are you a fugitive from justice?
 D. Are you an unlawful user of, or addicted to, any controlled substance (as defined as a drug or other substance, or immediate precursor, included in schedule I, II, III, IV, or V of Section 812, Part B, Sub-chapter I, Chapter 13, Title 21, of U.S. Code.)?
 E. Are you an illegal alien or have you been admitted to the United States under a non-immigrant visa?
 F. Have you been adjudicated as a mental defective or have you been committed to a mental institution?
 G. Have you been discharged from the Armed Forces under dishonorable conditions?
 H. Have you renounced your United States citizenship?
 I. Are you subject to a court-ordered restraining order from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or child?
 J. Are there any outstanding warrants for your arrest?
 K. Do you have a physical condition that would cause you to be a hazard to yourself or others?
 L. None of the above responses apply to me


2.
Maximum Age Requirement: This is a covered primary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S. C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this announcement. The maximum entry age (MEA) of 37 applies. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I am under the age of 37.
 I am less than age 37 after subtracting the months of Federal Service worked in a primary or secondary Firefighter/Law Enforcement position.
 I am a veteran preference eligible, other than age 37 and I am requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement.
 I am eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, older than 37, and requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement.
 None of the above responses apply to me and/or I do not meet the age requirement for this position.


This section is used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience needed to qualify for this position.


For each of the following questions, choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience related to this position. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers are verified against the information you provide in your transcripts, resume, and/or application, as well as information provided by your references. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Students graduating within nine months after the closing date of this announcement are also eligible to apply. Please answer the following questions as if you have already earned your anticipated degree or certification. If selected, a final job offer is made after all eligibility requirements are met including but not limited to graduation with official transcripts stating degree information and date conferred.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GL-05 level of this GL-1801 Law Enforcement Officer position. Experience claimed should be supported by the information reflected in your resume. 
Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered unqualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess a bachelor's degree in any field, or have completed a four (4) year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university.
 I have at least three years of progressively responsible experience, one year of which was equivalent to at least the GS-4 grade level; Specialized experience is defined as 3 or more of the following: 1. Performing routine administrative and field support tasks that required following established procedures, such as reviewing basic regulations and policies to understand work requirements and assisting with simple assignments under close supervision. 2. Assisting higher-graded staff with basic investigative support duties including observing scenes, helping gather straightforward facts, and preparing draft notes or portions of reports while learning proper documentation practices. 3. Conducting basic research on regulations and directives to resolve routine questions and preparing draft notes or portions of reports, seeking supervisory assistance when instructions were incomplete or situations were unfamiliar. 4. Engaging with the public to explain procedures and regulations, gathered preliminary information from witnesses or complainants, and coordinated with supervisors and partner agencies as directed to support mission objectives. 5. Participating in required training and applying learned procedures to assigned tasks and recognizing when guidance was needed and requested assistance appropriately when encountering unfamiliar work situations.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed college level education and work experience (as described above) that together meets the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GL-07 level of this GL-1801 Law Enforcement Officer position. Experience claimed should be supported by the information reflected in your resume. 
Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered unqualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education (18 semester/27 quarter hours) in related coursework such as Criminal Justice, Law, Forensics, Public Safety, etc.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as 3 or more of the following: 1. Assisting in conducting misdemeanor investigations by helping secure crime scenes, collecting basic physical and documentary evidence, interviewing witnesses under guidance, and drafting portions of investigative reports using established investigative methods. 2. Performing entry level patrol duties to prevent, detect, and report violations of Federal laws and regulations related to natural resources, property, employees, and public use; issued warnings as directed and referred non-route or complex violations to higher graded officers. 3. Supporting enforcement operations—including search warrant execution, arrests, and prisoner transport—by completing assigned tasks such as custody documentation, evidence handling support, and maintaining scene control in compliance with Forest Service law enforcement policies. 4. Researching regulations, directives, and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to resolve routine questions and applied guidance to developmental assignments; sought supervisory input when encountering unfamiliar conditions or potentially sensitive resource protection issues. 5. Interacting with forest users, witnesses, and partner agencies by explaining rules and procedures, collecting preliminary information, and assisting with coordination during multi-agency operations and public safety activities.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience (equivalent to at least the GL-05 grade level) and graduate level education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I do not possess the specialized experience; however, I was in the upper third of the graduating class of a college or university or one of its major subdivisions, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration; or a member of a national scholastic honor society that meets the minimum requirements of the Association of College Honor Societies (excluding freshman honor society); or have a 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (GPA will be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 rounds to 3.0 and 2.94 rounds to 2.9).
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


This section will be used to gather information regarding your education and eligibility for the Recent Graduate Program.


5.
What type of academic program have you completed or will you complete in the next 9 months?
 Doctorate Degree
 Master's/Graduate Degree
 Bachelor's/Undergraduate Degree
 Associate Degree
 Vocational Degree
 Technical Degree
 Certificate Program
 Career or Technical Education Program (Registered Apprenticeships, Job Corps, AmeriCorps, Peace Corps)
 None of the above
 High School/GED/Home School


6.
When did you graduate and/or complete your degree/certificate program or what is your anticipated graduation/completion date?


For each item below, in your own words, do not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Describe a specific instance from your training and/or experience. Your response must include:
1. The situation or assignment, i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved
2. The specific actions you took
3. The outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment
4. Your position title at the time
5. Provide the name and contact information for someone who can verify each accomplishment.


7.
In law enforcement, small details can significantly impact officer safety and case outcomes. Describe a situation where noticing (or missing) a detail affected the success of an operation, investigation, project, task or report.


7a.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


8.
Describe a time when you worked through a challenging interaction with someone who communicated or thought differently than you. How did you handle it, and what was the result?


8a.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


9.
Describe a situation in which you had to manage multiple responsibilities or stressful demands without direct supervision. What specific strategy did you use to stay organized, maintain professionalism, and complete your responsibilities effectively?


9a.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


10.
Law enforcement often requires adapting to rapidly changing situations, schedules, and operational demands. Describe a time when you had to quickly shift your plans or approach to meet mission needs, and how you ensured effectiveness despite the change?


10a.
Provide verifier name and contact information.


Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take an opportunity to review your responses for their accuracy.


11.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙