Position Title
Administrative Law Judge
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
EX-26-053-MW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position. You must choose at least one grade.
 AL_3/A
 AL_3/B
 AL_3/C
 AL_3/D
 AL_3/E
 AL_3/F


2.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires at least an LL.B or J.D. from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association.
 I meet the requirement above.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


3.
This position requires you to be a member in good standing of the Bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I meet the requirement above.
 I do not meet the requirement above.


4.
Do you possess at least 10 years of total experience as one or more of the following:
A Federal Administrative Law Judge;
A Patent Trial and Appeal Board ("PTAB") Judge;
A judge in a federal tribunal with jurisdiction over intellectual property, international trade, or unfair competition matters;
An attorney litigating before the USITC in Section 337 investigations, and/or litigating before a federal tribunal in matters involving intellectual property, international trade, or unfair competition claims, such as trade secret misappropriation, false advertising under the Lanham Act, or antitrust;
A Clerk or similar position to a judge in a federal tribunal with jurisdiction over intellectual property, international trade, or unfair competition matters.
 I meet the requirement above.
 I do not meet the requirement above.


5.
In the position(s) identified above, did you acquire at least 10 years of substantial experience in section 337 litigation before the United States International Trade Commission (USITC), or in intellectual property litigation and/or unfair competition litigation before he U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Courts of Appeals, U.S. District Courts, U.S. Court of International Trade, U.S. Court of Federal Claims, or U.S. federal agencies, through one or more of the following activities:
Drafting complaints and other pleadings and conducting pre-filing investigations.
Conducting prehearing disclosure and discovery, including conducting and defending depositions; preparing discovery requests and responses; conducting foreign discovery; conducting forensic examinations.
Preparing prehearing motions, opinions, or orders (including summary judgment motions).
Conducting or presiding over settlement or negotiations in advance of the hearing.
Participating in oral arguments or conferences before the presiding judge or officer.
Preparing for the hearing, including lay and expert witness preparation; preparing evidentiary exhibits, physical exhibits, and demonstratives.
Trying or hearing cases whether in person or via videoconference, including proceedings involving non-English speaking witnesses.
Preparing pre-hearing and post-hearing briefs or opinions.
Preparing petitions for review and responses thereto.
Participating in or conducting arbitration, mediation, or other alternative dispute resolution.
Participating in post-order ancillary proceedings (e.g., modification proceedings; enforcement proceedings; advisory opinion proceedings).
Participating in enforcement-related activity before U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
Participating in appeals related to the types of cases described above.
 I meet the requirement above.
 I do not meet the requirement above.


6.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understanding that responding 'NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application and questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙