Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12917063-26-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) appointed to direct patient care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Credential. Are you currently registered with the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) the credentialing as a Registered Respiratory Therapist(RRT)? Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
 Yes, I hold a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision in that I was employed by the Veterans Health Administration as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist before March 12, 2021 and have been continuously employed as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist since March 12, 2021 (All SF-50s showing you as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist must be uploaded as part of your application if you are claiming this eligibility.)
 No, I do NOT hold a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT


3.
Education: Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor. Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor?
 Yes, I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision in that I was employed by the Veterans Health Administration as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist before March 12, 2021 and have been continuously employed as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist since March 12, 2021 (All SF-50s showing you as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist must be uploaded as part of your application if you are claiming this eligibility.)
 No, I have NOT successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.


4.
Licensure: Persons appointed to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision in that I was employed by the Veterans Health Administration as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist before March 12, 2021 and have been continuously employed as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist since March 12, 2021 (All SF-50s showing you as a GS-11 Registered Respiratory Therapist must be uploaded as part of your application if you are claiming this eligibility.)
 No, I do NOT hold a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following question based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-11: Applicants must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level and hold an active license and RRT credential.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's): In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all of the following KSA's: 1. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes. 2. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities. 3. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision. The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all hybrid title 38 qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education, credential or certification requirements that apply to this occupation. All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series and performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education, credential or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: (1) Employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure, certification or registration, may be reassigned, promoted or demoted within the occupation. (2) Employees in an occupation that requires a licensure, certification or registration, may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the full performance level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (3) Employees in an occupation that requires a licensure, certification or registration only at higher grade levels must meet the licensure, certification or registration requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels. (4) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. (5) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure, certification or registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation. (6) If an employee who was retained in an occupation listed in 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(3) under this provision leaves that occupation or employment with the VA, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation and/or VA.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙