Position Title
Lifeguard (Rec Asst - Aquatics)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12878237 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 03, 2026 to Feb 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Non-Appropriated (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Naval Air Station Patuxent River, MD
 B. Solomons, MD


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a current valid Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation for the Professional Rescuer and Healthcare Providers or equivalent; First Aid Certification; and Lifeguard Certification? (MUST attach copies of all current valid certifications for consideration)
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following certifications do you have (check all that apply)?
 A. Lifeguard Instructor Certification
 B. Water Safety Instructor Certification
 C. Certified Pool Operator
 D. American Red Cross Small Craft Safety Training
 E. None of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing lifeguarding duties, such as supervising swimmers, applying first aid, enforcing safety rules, and performing water rescues as necessary?
 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in testing pool chemicals, documenting results and adjusting imbalances as needed?
 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙