Position Title
Budget Officer
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
EX-13034755-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following question will address your minimum qualifications for the position. Read the question and consider your answer carefully, 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience at the GS-15 grade level is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, sk4ills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. 
Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-14 which is directly related to this line of work?
Researching, interpreting, analyzing, and applying budget and financial management legislative and administrative policies to ensure compliance with budgetary requirements;.
Supervising or managing a budget or financial management office including planning, programming, budgeting and executing major acquisition budgets in accordance with established policies and procedures;
Directed budget planning and execution activities, advised senior leadership on resource allocation and fiscal strategy, and ensured compliance with  budget regulations, appropriations law.
 Yes
 No


2.
Identify the budget functions you perform as a regular part of your budgetary responsibilities and in which you consider yourself proficient.
 A. I prepare detailed written responses to various budget inquiries (audits, variance explanations, etc.) from headquarters personnel/management level.
 B. I prepare budget narratives and impact justifications.
 C. I interpret legislative and administrative policies and procedures to ensure compliance with budgetary requirements.
 D. I obtain and compile budget data from automated financial management systems, records, and reports.
 E. I analyze and verify data pertaining to a budget.
 F. None of the above.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your experience with Budgeting regulations, procedures and methods. 

 A. I am considered an expert in this subject area. I have either supervised a budgeting function, or have been a senior specialist responsible budget program for my organization. I may or may not defend the budget before Agency heads, Congress or OMB.
 B. I am a senior specialist in budgeting; my duties have included providing advice to management officials in the about the budget process such as preparation of budget requests, budget reports, or periodic budget adjustments. I prepare and present budget briefings for senior management officials. I have also provided training in budget process to other specialists
 C. I am a budget analyst responsible for portions of the budget process for my organization. I prepare a variety of budget reports or briefings about the status of the funding and expenditures for which I am responsible. I respond to questions from management officials about my area of responsibility.
 D. I am a budget analyst responsible for preparing a variety of budget reports; process invoices and monitor expenditures. I analyze status reports to ensure correct obligations and make corrections as required or propose adjustments. I assist senior budget analysts with more complex projects or provide input to budget presentations to senior management officials.
 E. I do not have the experience described above


4.
Please select the types of tasks with which you have had direct experience in planning, formulating and justifying an agency's or organization's annual budget submission for the upcoming year. Check all that apply. 

 A. Converting output from an organization's strategy/planning process into viable budget proposals narratives.
 B. Developing and editing internal program evaluation narratives for ongoing base programs
 C. Writing and editing scenarios for different levels of budget funding.
 D. Writing and editing responses to questions from higher level organizations that have approval authority over my organization's budget proposals.
 E. Writing and editing responses to questions from legislative bodies that have approval authority over my organization's budget proposals.
 F. Developing and editing budget proposal presentations to decision-making bodies.
 G. Coordinating development of special cross-cutting analyses for an organization's budget, e.g., the amounts within each budget line that support research and development, a particular regional focus, or other specialized topics of interest.
 H. Maintaining extensive budget tracking tables for an organization's future-year budget that are capable of providing answers to a wide range of questions likely to be asked by my organization's management as well as by bodies reviewing my organization's budget proposals.
 I. Writing and editing programmatic appeals to budget decisions by higher-level organizations.
 J. Developing and editing impact statements for approved levels of funding that are below expectations.
 K. None of the above


5.
Which of the following most accurately describes your highest level of experience that demonstrates your potential to supervise a group of employees?

 A. I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I perform the duties and responsibilities of my position with general directions for common assignments but require more specific direction and guidance from higher level specialists or supervisors for more complex or politically sensitive assignments.
 B. I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I independently perform the duties and responsibilities of my position; determine the course of action to take, plan and carry out my assignments, consult with others as necessary, and resolve any conflicts. I keep my supervisor advised of progress, any controversial conflicts or issues, and/or matters that may affect policy or have far-reaching implications.
 C. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization.
 D. I have served as a project leader, established and communicated the project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met.
 E. I have held a position or positions with supervisory responsibilities which included: development of goals, milestones, and work plans; balanced and distributed employees' workload; evaluated job performance; mediated or negotiated resolutions to employee problems and conflicts; recommended employees for recognition, promotion, developmental training; and recommended or hired new employees.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
Which best describes your experience communicating thoughts, ideas, information and messages to an audience?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


7.
Select the statement that best reflects how you have most often approached the development and implementation of new programs, policies, or processes.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


8.
Describe your experience planning and conducting systematic reviews and evaluations of information and data regarding financial processes in order to identify trends, patterns, and opportunities for program enhancement
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


Short Essay Questions: The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.




11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.




12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙