Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Fiduciary Service Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
326-26-LH-12989820-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Veterans Service Representative (Fiduciary Service Specialist), GS-10 grade level, with the Department of #Veterans Affairs (VA)", Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), Indianapolis Regional Office. We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment following acceptance.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the area of consideration.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Indianapolis, Indiana VBA Regional Office employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible. For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
From the choices below, please select the response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for the Veterans Service Representative (Fiduciary Service Specialist).
 I am a current, permanent Indianapolis, IN Regional Office employee or current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible.
 I am not a current, permanent Indianapolis, IN Regional Office employee or current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time-in-grade requirement.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, if you are a current or former federal employee, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade increase SF-50 Notice of Personnel Action. Award or general adjustment SF-50's may not be used to verify time-in-grade eligibility. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate your eligibility. The SF-50 must include your position title, series, grade, step, tenure (1 or 2), and type of service (Competitive or Excepted).


2.
From the choices below, please select the response that most accurately describes your time-in-grade eligibility for the Veterans Service Representative (Fiduciary Service Specialist) position.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-09 level in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher. Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting time-in-grade requirements.


The following section is used to determine your job-related experience/education background.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT: Specialized experience for this position is defined as Applying federal, state, and local laws regarding benefit programs; Conducting interviews to evaluate eligibility for benefits and services; Applying state laws pertaining to conservatorship and estate administration; and/or knowledge of fiduciary and field examination programs sufficient to protect beneficiary's assets. Your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on your resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


3.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the Veterans Service Representative (Fiduciary Service Specialist) position.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-09, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Analyzes and makes the final determination of the competency of veterans and other VA beneficiaries and provides the final notification of the determination; (2) Adjudicates award actions for the Fiduciary Program, to include release of retroactive payments, suspended, resumed, terminated and/or recovered when appropriate.; (3) Authorizes, reviews and approves the pending award action for technical accuracy, clarity and thoroughness.; (4) Ensures beneficiaries receive all benefits to which entitled, including those pertaining to dependents; (5) Prepares Statements of the Case (SOC) on Fiduciary Program appeals.
 I have 2½ years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in degree in Business, Management, Economics, Finance, or another degree with coursework that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do this work of this position. Graduate level courses must demonstrate your education has provided you the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position NOTE: If you are claiming to qualify based on your education, your application must include an official or unofficial copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information.
 I do not fully meet the length of specialized experience as described in “A” or education as described in “B”, however when combined my education and experience equal 100% of the minimum qualification requirements. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify at the GS-10. Note: If this option is selected you must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements. Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting the specialized experience requirements.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: job title, duties (be as detailed as possible), month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008), and full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your two-page maximum resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages, encrypted or digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙