Position Title
Community Planner
Agency
U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
Announcement Number
MCGP-26-12953495-HD Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
Before you are hired, you must sign and certify the accuracy of the information in your application. If you misrepresent your experience or education, or provide false or fraudulent information in or with your application, it may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work. Making false or fraudulent statements also may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Community Planner GS-0020-11 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Community Planner at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a field related to community planning such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration and possess at least one-year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in one of the disciplines, as shown in A above, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the disciplines, as shown in A above, of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Community Planner at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) reviewing the master plan to ensure it supports goals and objectives; 2) recommending changes to project plans to eliminate conflicting factors; 3) coordinating the building demolition plan with staff and outside agencies; and 4) managing various construction programs, special funding programs, and the geospatial information system data base..
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration. . (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙