Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
319-26-JML-13039721-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and/or Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) as described above?

 Yes, I am a current permanent VBA employee and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my status.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I am not a current VBA employee and/or I am not eligible for CTAP


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?

 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


3.
What is your current grade?



4.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?



TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements, in addition to minimum qualifications, in order to be considered. For a GS-14 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-13 grade level, or higher, by the closing date of this announcement.


5.
Have you ever held a position within the federal government at the GS-13 level for a minimum of 52 weeks?

 Yes, I have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-13 grade level, or higher.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements of occupying a GS-13 grade level or higher for at least 52 weeks (1 year), by the closing date of this announcement.


6.
Based on the selections below, please choose the answer that best describes how you meet specialized experience at the GS-14 level: Specialized experience is defined as experience in a multifaceted program of services, management programs, and budget/fiscal and administrative operations for a federal office.  The experience should demonstrate the following:
Preparing administrative study findings, recommendations, plans and reports.
Providing advice on programs and procedures pertaining to facilities, budgets, security, safety, and other administrative program activities.
Presenting position papers and technical presentations to top management or the public involving finance and administrative program issues.
Conducting independent evaluations of finance and administrative functions.
Preparing and monitoring complex budgets and resolving financial management issues.
 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent.
 I do not have the specialized experience listed in the vacancy announcement.


7.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment. Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙