Position Title
General Engineer/Physical Scientist (Senior Technical Safety Advisor)
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-NANV- XE-00472-NNSA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Wednesday, December 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


2.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


3.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.


4.
I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
You must meet the basic requirements for professional engineering positions. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/experience background. NOTE: If you are qualifying on the basis of a combination of education and experience, both must be sufficient to demonstrate possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for this position, and is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study with a major in the appropriate field. In addition to courses in the major and related fields, a typical college degree includes courses that involve analysis, writing, critical thinking, research, etc. These courses provide the skills and abilities sufficient to perform progressively more responsible work. Therefore, creditable experience should have demonstrated similarly appropriate skills or abilities needed to perform the work of an engineer.
 I have a professional engineering degree received from a school of engineering with at least 1 curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology as professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a professional engineering degree & have completed courses that included differential & integral calculus & courses (beyond first-year physics/chemistry) in at least 5 of the following areas of engineering science or physics: A-statics, dynamics; B-strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); C-fluid mechanics, hydraulics; D-thermodynamics; E-electrical fields & circuits; nature & properties of materials &-other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 I am currently registered as a professional engineer in one of the states in the U.S., the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have successfully passed an Engineer-in-Training examination, or the written test required for professional registration, as administered by a Board of Engineering Examiners in one of the states in the U.S., the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico.
 I possess a combination of college level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished 1-a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering; and 2-a good understanding, both theoretical & practical, of the engineering sciences & techniques & their applications to one of the branches of engineering. Ipossess a combination of college level education, training, and/or technical experience. I have completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, & engineering sciences & in engineering. I have completed courses as listed in Item 2 above. These courses arefully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum accredited by ABET. In addition, I possess progressively responsible work experience that demonstrates that I possess the knowledge, skills & abilities required to perform work as an engineer.
 I have completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology. In addition, I have at least one year of professional engineering experience that was acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I understand that I must provide documentation.
 None of the above.


2.
You must meet the basic requirements for professional physical scientist positions:
 
Degree: physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.

or

Combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I meet the basic requirements for a professional physical scientist position
 I do not meet the requirements for a professional physical scientist position.


3.
A qualified candidate's online application and resume must demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower NNSA pay band or GS grade level in the Federal service i.e., NN-04, EN-04 or GS-15.

Specialized experience is defined as:
Having direct responsibility for activities impacting the safe operation of defense nuclear facilities;
-Performing oversight of nuclear operations, including authorization basis documents, principles of conduct of operations, Integrated Safety Management Systems, and/or startup/restart of nuclear facilities;
-Managing safety and health technical programs and providing assistance, direction, guidance, oversight, or evaluation of contractor activities;
-Initiating, planning, monitoring, and conducting reviews and assessments of contractor safety and health programs;
-Performing independent analysis to evaluate technical issues related to safety and health programs.

Please select the response below which best describes your experience. 
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the EN-IV pay band or GS-15 equivalency as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


4.
Describe your experience or ability to effectively communicate orally, which includes knowing the audience, effective listening, negotiating and clarifying information as needed as it relates to nuclear safety. Include the types/level of audience


5.
Describe your experience in providing technical advice, support, review, and evaluation of the nuclear and high-hazard operations, related safety management programs, and related laws, regulations and governmental policies.


6.
Describe your experience as a technical advisor and expert on nuclear safety, criticality safety, and safety management program oversight.


7.
Explain your experience analyzing and evaluating implementation and documentation of contractor and Federal safety programs to include the elements listed below. Consider the list below when responding: 
Conduct of Operations
Formality of Operations
Conduct of Maintenance
Quality Assurance
Health and Safety programs
Nuclear Safety
Environment compliance


8.
Describe your experience with nuclear operations safety concepts and practices in order to serve as a technical expert. Please consider the elements listed below in your response: Formaility of Operations, Conduct of Operations, Conduct of Maintenance, Safety System Oversight, Quality Assurance, Nuclear Safety, Criticality Safety, and training others in advanced concepts.


9.
This position will be responsible for managing and providing advice and expertise on Safety Authorization Basis programs for complex nuclear facilities. Please describe your experience performing these functions.


10.
Using at least one of the following engineering disciplines: (Materials, Chemical, Physics, Nuclear, Mechanical, Civil Construction) describe ways you have provided technical reports for use by senior leadership for safety decisions and approvals.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙