Position Title
CUSTODIAL WORKER LEADER
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJG-26-13002472-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


MERIT ESSAY QUESTIONNAIRE
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Custodial Worker Leader WL-3566-02, position with the Defense Health Agency (DHA). We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select one statement below that best describes your ability to Lead as a Custodial Worker Leader, WL-3566-02.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex custodial, janitorial, activities completed within a hospital setting. I am skilled in independently checking performance of custodial, janitorial, or housekeeping services of all areas to include patient rooms, wards, clinics and common areas for quality and quantity of work performed; preparing reports with results to leadership recommending corrective actions; distributes and balances workload among employees in accordance with established workflow or job specialization and ensure timely accomplishment of assigned workload. Pass on worker instructions and observe task in progress for journeyman level employees; Monitor status of work and make day-to-day adjustments; maintains records of work completed and time expended as necessary. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform a full range of custodial, janitorial, and housekeeping activities within a large hospital setting. I am skilled in independently checking performance of custodial, janitorial, or housekeeping services of all areas to include patient rooms, wards, clinics and common areas to ensure completion; preparing reports with results to leadership; observing discrepancies and substandard work performed by janitorial staff; following instructions and work procedures regarding repair and assembly assignments. I work on my own initiative under general supervision and occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common custodial, janitorial, and housekeeping activities within a large hospital setting. I am skilled in checking performance of custodial, janitorial, or housekeeping services of all areas to include patient rooms, wards, clinics and common areas to ensure completion; maintaining a log or check sheet of work performed by staff. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes task in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple custodial, janitorial, and housekeeping activities within a hospital setting. I can ensure simple custodial, janitorial, or housekeeping duties are performed such as floors and corridors are dust mopped, restrooms are stocked with supplies; and reviewing custodial, janitorial, or housekeeping to note shortage of supply.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.
Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙