Position Title
Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN)
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-13023735-DHA-S Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 01, 2026 to Jan 31, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11
12


2.
Please select the work schedule(s) you would like to be considered for.

 A. Full-Time
 B. Part-Time
 C. Intermittent


3.
Please select the appointment type(s) you would like to be considered for.

 A. Permanent
 B. Temporary
 C. Term


Short Essay Question
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) position with the Department of the Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) at the GS-5/7/9/11/12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor’s degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained OR I have a degree from a Foreign Nursing School that is accompanied by an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools certification.)
 I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not meet either requirement described above.


2.
The Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and you must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and have passed the National Council Licensure Examination? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)

 Yes.
 I have not passed the National Council Licensure Examination as stated above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing and one full year of professional nursing experience which demonstrates the following competencies: performs nursing care, patient assessments, medication administration or monitoring, and specimen collection. (Note: You must attach a copy of your diploma or transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor's degree in Nursing with no experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have both the education AND experience as described in A AND B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.).
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 I do not meet the requirements above. However, I was previously employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War for at least one year OR am currently employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War AND after commencing employment with the Department of War obtained a bachelor’s degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree in Nursing and at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-5 grade level) which demonstrates the following competencies: performs nursing care, patient assessments, medication administration or monitoring, and specimen collection. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing and two full years of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-5 grade level or above) which demonstrates the following competencies: performs nursing care, patient assessments, medication administration or monitoring, and specimen collection. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor's degree in Nursing and eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement provision. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in Nursing. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achshonor.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 I have at least one full year of graduate education in a professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have education AND experience as described in A, B, C, and/or D above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 I do not meet the requirements above. However, I was previously employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War for at least one year OR am currently employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War AND after commencing employment with the Department of War obtained a bachelor’s degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor's degree in Nursing from a professional nursing program and possession of at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-7 grade level or above) which demonstrates the following competencies: performs nursing care, patient assessments, medication administration or monitoring, and specimen collection. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a master’s degree in professional nursing. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience AND education as described in A AND B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 I do not meet the requirements above. However, I was previously employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War for at least one year OR am currently employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War AND after commencing employment with the Department of War obtained a bachelor’s degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor's degree in Nursing from a professional nursing program and possession of at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-9 grade level or above) which includes providing nursing care to a variety of patients, conducting nursing assessments, and educating patients or staff. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience AND education as described in A AND B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 I do not meet the requirements above. However, I was previously employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War for at least one year OR am currently employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War AND after commencing employment with the Department of War obtained a bachelor’s degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)


7.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Inpatient Clinical/OB-GYN) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one or more full years of professional nursing experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes providing nursing care to obstetrical and gynecological patients, assisting with procedures, and administering medications.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
 I do not meet the requirements above. However, I was previously employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War for at least one year OR am currently employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War AND after commencing employment with the Department of War obtained a bachelor’s degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)


8.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙