Position Title
Buiding Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13035768 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Describe your experience level using a personal computer and various software programs.
 Experience greater than 3 years.
 Experience between 1 and 3 years
 Experience less than 1 year.
 No Experience


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least 3 years of work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, regulations and administration related to maintenance operations?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least 3 years of documented work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, regulations and administration related to maintenance operations?
 Yes
 No


4.
Describe your professional knowledge of lodging organization.
 Documented Experience greater than 3 years that involves working in Unaccompanied Housing, Military Housing & Lodging, student or recruit barracks.
 Documented Experience between 1 and 3 years that involves working in Unaccompanied Housing, Military Housing & Lodging, student or recruit barracks.
 Documented Experience of less than 1 year that involves working in any Department of Defense or civilian housing program (public or private)
 No documented experience.


5.
Describe your level of customer service experience.
 Documented experience greater than 3 years.
 Documented experience between 1 than 3 years.
 Documented experience less than 1 year.
 No documented experience.


6.
Describe your experience related to maintenance operation.
 Documented experience greater than 3 years.
 Documented experience between 1 and 3 years
 Less than 1 year documented experience.
 No documented experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙