Position Title
Assistant Director - Ecological Services
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R9-26-12886288-RM-SES Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirement, you must demonstrate progressively responsible leadership that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability as outlined under Executive Core Qualifications and Technical Qualifications. Typically, experience of this nature will have been gained at or above the GS-15 grade level in the federal service, or its equivalent with state or local governments, the private sector, or non-governmental organizations.

 I have one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-15 grade level as outlined in the Technical Qualification and Executive Core Qualifications of this announcement.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


Basic Qualifications GS-480


Please note that your answers may be verified against the information you provide in your resume/application and information your references provide. (Note: The quality, type, and scope of your experience and/or training must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of this position since your narrative application or resume must support the responses you select.) A photocopy of official transcripts MUST be submitted to document educational accomplishments.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes how you meet the basic entry requirements for the Assistant Director, Ecological Services Senior Executive Service, ES-480, position. Select only one letter.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have an appropriate combination of education and experience that included course work equivalent to a major, or at least 30 semester hours in courses, as shown in A above (biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position) plus appropriate experience or additional education. The quality of the combination must demonstrate that you possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform the work of the position and is comparable to that normally acquired through the completion of a full four-year course of study with a major as described above. NOTE: Photocopies of Transcripts MUST be submitted to document your educational accomplishments.
 I have four years of experience that demonstrated that I acquired knowledge and understanding of one or more of the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, or related disciplines equivalent to that which would have been acquired through completion of a 4-year course of study as described in A above. NOTE: this experience must be demonstrated in your resume and supporting documentation.
 None of the above.


Instructions: Additional Qualifications


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙