Position Title
Physical Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-13033092-26-NM Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


4.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part I, pre-employment reference checks have been incorporated into the selection process. Hiring officials must conduct pre-employment reference checks with a current or previous supervisor prior to HR staff extending a tentative offer.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, telephone number and email address of at least one current/former supervisor who were in a position to directly observe your work within the previous 3 years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted, or if you prefer to provide your references upon request.

*Note: Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Physical Therapist Assistant position in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Services at the Fredericksburg Health Care Center which is part of the Central Virginia VA Health Care system under the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following sections will be used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the appropriate response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Physical Therapist Assistants (PTAs) must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C., Section 7403(f).
 Yes
 No


2.
Education Requirements: Individuals must meet at least one of the requirements below:

1) Associate Degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a Physical Therapy Assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education; OR

2) Graduate of a foreign Physical Therapy Assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for Physical Therapy Assistants (PTAs); OR

3) Graduate of military Physical Therapy Assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for Physical Therapy Assistants (PTAs).

Do you meet one of the education requirements?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Licensure: Current, full, active and unrestricted license as a Physical Therapy Assistant (PTA) in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia.
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide your license/certification information.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Requirement. Physical Therapy Assistant, GS-8.
Experience. One (1) year experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7) level. Example of this experience includes: PTAs that draw upon a broad base of practical and experiential knowledge in order to assist the PT in reaching pre-determined patient goals. PTAs work independently but still under the general direction of PTs. They observe patients' ability to perform specified tasks in order to provide ongoing assessment of information on patients' physical and functional status. PTAs work with the physical therapy staff to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan. They provide clinical direction for PTA students.

Additionally, the applicant must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) at the current grade level:
a) Ability to independently implement treatment plan using knowledge of techniques related to the patient's disability and needs.
b) Ability to independently provide varied and multifaceted physical therapy interventions based on the established care plan (e.g., therapeutic exercise, balance, body mechanics, flexibility, strength, gait training, neuromotor development, physical agents, functional training, etc.).
c) Knowledge of physical therapy data collection and assessment techniques in order to perform specific interventions and to monitor and capture progress of the patient/client.
d) Ability to instruct patient on varied interventions to provide materials to enhance compliance with home programs.
e) Ability to modify treatment techniques based on the learning needs and perceptions of the patient.
f) Ability to identify critical changes (e.g. vital signs, pain, mobility and alertness) in patient conditions to determine their medical and functional status.
g) Ability to work with PTs and other interdisciplinary healthcare team members to evaluate patient information for planning, modifying and coordinating treatment programs and discharge planning.

Do you meet these requirements for current grade level? (NOTE: your resume must thoroughly show that you meet these requirements)
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙