Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (SYSADMIN/NETWORK) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12896934-AR-26-106 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) full-time Dual Status Army National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1 or 2). 

Lateral requests must be a current full-time Tennessee National Guard PERMANENT (Tenure 1 or Tenure 2) on-board employee, in the same occupational series, same pay grade or higher and meet the qualification requirements for the position blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.



Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education, and/or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process; experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 36 months or 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS9) specialized experience,  education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization; experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls; experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment; experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion?
 Yes
 No


3.
How do you ensure accuracy in your data entry and processing tasks?


3a.
What specific methods or tools do you use?


4.
Describe a time you identified an error in a data entry task.


4a.
How did you correct it, and what steps did you take to prevent it from happening again?


5.
What data analysis tools and software are you proficient in?


5a.
Provide examples of how you've used them.


6.
Describe a project you worked on from start to finish.


6a.
How did you handle the data, what was the outcome, and what would you do differently next time.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙