Position Title
INSPECTOR GENERAL-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-180104-13004057-TLA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the educational requirements for the positions being filled. See the Qualifications section of the announcement for in-depth information on the educational requirements for all engineering positions. NOTE: YOU MUST PROVIDE A COPY OF YOUR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS WHEN APPLYING FOR THESE POSITIONS.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Inspector General at the NH-04 grade level or equivalent pay band. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience to at least the next lower broadband (NH-03), equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-13), or equivalent in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include knowledge of a wide range of complex inspection, investigation, enforcement, and/or compliance principles, concepts, and practices; as well as knowledge of Public Laws, Executive Orders, DoD Regulations, Air Force Instructions, administrative and legal procedures, and other decisions/standards related to agency activities and IG programs sufficient to conduct interviews, inspections, and investigations to analyze the nature of the complaint and specific issues to be addressed. Knowledge of Air Force, MAJCOM, and wing/center/installation program goals and objectives; IG functions, operations, policies, procedures, and practices; the sequence and timing of key operational events and milestones; and the relationship of various installation entities involved in overall program planning and execution of military operations and evaluations. Knowledge of personnel management, EEO, and safety and security regulations, practices, and procedures.
 I do not possess any of the experience described in the above statement.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙