Position Title
Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZO-12871533-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 02, 2026 to Dec 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marion, IL
 B. Evansville, IN
 C. Leavenworth, KS
 D. Topeka, KS
 E. Wichita, KS
 F. Columbia, MO
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. Poplar Bluff, MO
 I. Saint Louis, MO


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Health Instrument Specialist) position. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about basic requirements related to this position. For each following questions, please choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


Basic Requirements for the position of Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) GS-640


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed
under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Experience or Education.

 Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists; OR
 Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas. In addition to the basic requirements outlined above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck. (b) Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines. (c) Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing. (d) Ability to communicate orally and in writing. (e) Ability to follow verbal and written instructions. (f) Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories. Do you meet the basic requirements and meet the KSA requirement listed for this position? If education is being claimed transcripts are required to be submitted with application.
 I do not have the experience and/or Education required


3.
Licensure or Registration. Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia.

 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist).
 I do not possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist).


4.
Board Certification. Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).

 I possess a board certification from the NBC-HIS.
 I am in a VA Sponsored Training program, pending board certification from the NBC-HIS. SF50 required.
 I do not possess a board certification from the NBC-HIS.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-05 Health Technician (HIS):
In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:

(a) Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
(b) Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
(c) Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
(d) Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
(e) Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
(f) Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.

Do you meet the requirements stated above to qualify for the GS-5?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-06 Health Technician (HIS):
Candidate must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-05).
In addition to the requirement above, candidates must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:

(a) Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
(b) Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
(c) Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
(d) Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
(e) Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
(f) Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
(g) Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
(h) Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Do you meet the requirements stated above to qualify for the GS-6?

 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Please ensure you have included all documents required for your application, such as a copy of your transcripts (if education is being claimed), resume, SF-50 (current Federal employees), etc. Failure to provide all documents will result in an ineligible rating. Performance Appraisal - Hiring Official would like this provided with application. If you are a current Federal employee you MUST submit a copy of your most recent (within the last 12 months of the closing date of this announcement), non-award SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) showing tenure, grade, step and type of position occupied (i.e., Excepted or Competitive). Failure to provide the SF-50 will result in an ineligible rating.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙