Position Title
SUPERVISORY DISTINGUISHED ENGINEER OR SCIENTIST
Agency
Naval Sea Systems Command
Announcement Number
ST-12842093-26-MCJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, December 4, 2025 to Thursday, December 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an active duty service member with a statement of service showing that you expect to be honorably discharged or released from the armed forces under honorable conditions no later than 120 days after submitting your application? Please note: you will be ineligible for consideration if your statement of service is not submitted with your application or it shows an expected discharge or release date greater than 120 days from the date of the submission of the certification.

You are required to submit a statement of service printed on command letterhead and signed by the command. The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (e.g., Honorable, General, etc.).  Veterans should upload their DD-214 once they receive it upon separation.  

Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a retired civil service federal employee seeking reemployment?

If yes, you are required to submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 (or equivalent). In addition, you must select another eligibility (e.g., Former Federal Employee, VEOA, etc.) for which you can claim on this job opportunity announcement.

Failure to select another eligibility will make you ineligible for consideration.

The Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of Navy (DON) policy on employment of annuitants will be used in determining eligibility of annuitants. Annuitants reemployed in the Department of Defense receive full annuity and salary upon appointment. They are not eligible for retirement contributions, to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, nor to a supplemental or re-determined annuity for the reemployment period. Discontinued service retirement annuitants (i.e. retired under section 8336(d)(1) or 8416(b)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code) appointed to the Department of Defense may elect to be subject to retirement provisions of the new appointment, as appropriate.

Policy information may be found at: http://www.secnav.navy.mil/donhr/Documents/CivilianJobs/FedCivAnnuitants.pdf


 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is appointable under Non-Competitive EO 13473 Civil Service Appointment of Military Spouses?

You are eligible if you:
Are married to an active duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days OR
Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service connected injury OR
Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty.

You are required to support your claim with the documents below:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate).
AND
If you are married to an active duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days
OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter)
OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment if eligible based on 100% disability due to service or as an un-remarried widow/widower of a service member killed while on active duty.

For more information please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 

Failure to provide documentation that fully supports your claim will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former time-limited employee that occupied a position located at a Defense Industrial Base Facility (DIBF) (click here for map) or Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MRTFB) (click here for list)?

If yes, confirm:
1. You were originally hired under open, competitive examination to the time-limited appointment AND
2. You were on a temporary or term appointment in the competitive service AND
3. You served under one or more time-limited appointments at a DIBF and/or MRTFB for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years AND
4. You performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s)

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit supporting documentation of your claim including a copy of your first and last SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) for each appointment verifying the Position Occupied code (Block 34) is 1 - Competitive Service AND documentation of fully successful performance appraisal(s) (or equivalent documentation) for each appointment.

Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. For more information, please see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/national-defense-authorization-act-ndaa-fiscal-year-fy-2017—eligibility-certain-time-limited

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former land management agency employee, AND you:
served under a time-limited (temporary or term) appointment for a period totaling at least 24 months without a break in service of more than 2 years, AND
performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), AND
are not separated from the land management agency OR separated within the last two years for reasons other than misconduct or performance?

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit supporting documentation of your claim including a copy of your last or most recent SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action(s) reflecting all periods of creditable service and fully successful performance appraisal(s) (or equivalent documentation) from the same time period.

Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. For more information, please see https://chcoc.gov/content/eligibility-land-management-employees-time-limited-appointment-competitive-service
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you currently employed as a permanent competitive service employee in the Department of the Navy (Navy or Marine Corps)?

If you are:
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) will reflect career or career-conditional: Tenure 1 or 2 in box 24 AND
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status in the competitive service: Position Occupied is 1 in box 34 (Unless you are on a permanent VRA appointment then it will show a 2 in box 34).

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 showing you are employed in the DON in the competitive service AND the SF-50 reflecting the highest grade held if not reflected on your most recent SF-50. Failure to submit this documentation with your application will result in a rating of ineligible. If you are serving on an excepted service veterans recruitment appointment (VRA) you must ALSO submit an SF-50 showing your conversion or appointment to the excepted service VRA appointment (Authority code in block 5-C will be J8M).

PLEASE NOTE: For GS positions, to be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from MyBiz. Failure to provide documentation that fully supports your claim will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability as defined in 5 CFR 213.3102(u)? The Department of the Navy encourages persons with disabilities to apply!

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a letter or certification from a physician, or local, state, or federal rehabilitation office. The letter/certification must be on office letterhead and clearly state your eligibility for the appointing authority under 5 CFR 213.3102 (u). A sample letter can be found here. Failure to submit this documentation with your application will result in a rating of ineligible. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you eligible to apply under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)?

You are eligible if:
you are a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND
you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR 
you are entitled to veterans' preference including derived preference

If you answer yes to this question you must submit a copy of your latest DD-214 Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (any copy that shows all dates of service, as well as character of service [Honorable, General, etc.] is acceptable) OR a VA letter that shows dates of service or service connected disability AND character of service. If you have more than one DD-214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service. If you were issued a DD-215 to amend aforementioned information on the DD-214 you must submit that too.

If you are entitled to claim VEOA due to derived preference you must also provide the applicable supporting documentation of your derived preference (e.g., disability letter from the VA, DD 1300, etc.) as described on Standard Form-15 (SF-15). 

Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

You may request copies of your military personnel records (e.g., DD-214) online or from the VA.

NOTE: If you are an active duty service member you are not eligible for consideration under this authority. Refer to the active duty service member question for consideration.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1310 - Physics
 C. 1515 - Operations Research
 D. 1520 - Mathematics
 E. 1550 - Computer Science


2.
Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo


3.
Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙