Position Title
Appeals Officer (Exam)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12994790C-APX-0930-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


4.
ICTAP Candidate - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) or equivalent personnel action form.
 
For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


5.
U.S. Citizen Candidate - Are you a U.S. citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


6.
Applicants must meet the minimum age requirements for this position. Please indicate the option which best describes your current status. If you are 16 or 17 years of age, you MUST submit documentation of graduation from high school (or equivalent); OR completion of a formal vocational training program; OR statement from school authorities agreeing with your decision to pursue employment rather than continuing your education.
 I am 18 years of age or older.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and have graduated from high school or have been awarded a certificate equivalent to graduating from high school.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and have completed a formal vocational training program.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and have a statement from school authorities agreeing with my decision to pursue employment rather than continuing my education.
 I am 16 or 17 years of age and am currently enrolled in high school (a student).
 I am under 16 years of age.


Preferences
1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRS will be subject to a tax check. You can "Get Your Tax Record" at http://www.irs.gov/ (https://www.irs.gov/individuals/get-transcript) and check the status of your account, balance owed, payment history, make a payment, or review answers to tax questions. Applicants not in compliance will be determined unsuitable for employment with IRS. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRS.

Please select the response that best describes your compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. You will be subject to a tax check that will verify your response to this question.
 I am currently compliant with all Federal Tax requirements. I have filed all tax returns, and, if applicable, paid any balance that was due.
 I currently have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have made the necessary arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 I have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have NOT made any arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 None of the above.


2.
The following question is regarding your Selective Service status. If you are a male born after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, civil service employment law (5 U.S.C. 3328) requires that you must be registered with the Selective Service System, unless you meet certain exemptions under Selective Service law. If you are required to register but knowingly and willfully fail to do so, you are ineligible for appointment by executive agencies of the Federal Government (5 CFR 300.704). Visit http://www.sss.gov/ for additional information.
 I certify that I have registered for Selective Service.
 I have not registered for Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption or served in the military continuously from age 18 to age 26.
 I have not reached my 18th birthday and understand I am required by law to register at that time.
 I was required to register for Selective Service and did not register. I do not have an approved exemption, and I have not served in the military.
 I was born female or born before January 1, 1960, and I am not required to register by law


3.
If you are a current Federal employee, by what agency and organization are you employed?
Treasury - (BEP) Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Treasury - (DO) Departmental Offices
Treasury - (FinCEN) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Treasury - (FS) Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Treasury - IRS
Treasury - IRS Office of the Chief Counsel
Treasury - (MINT) United States Mint
Treasury - (OCC) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Treasury - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Treasury - (SIGTARP) Special Inspector General for TARP
Treasury - (TIGTA) Treasury Inspector General for Tax Admin
Treasury - (TTB) Alcohol & Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
AFRH - Armed Forces Retirement Home
DHS - (USSS) United States Secret Service
DOJ - (ATF) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
FHFA - (OIG) Office of the Inspector General
FMSHRC - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
GAO - Government Accountability Office
HUD - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
USDA - (FNS) Food and Nutrition Service
USDA - (OCIO) International Technology Services
USOGE - (OGE) Office of Government Ethics
Veterans Affairs - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Other
Not Applicable


4.
If you selected "Other", please enter the agency and organization.


5.
If you are a current Federal employee, what is your duty station? [City, State]


6.
If you are a Federal employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, competitive service
 Career-conditional Appointment, competitive service
 Career Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Permanent Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Other Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Excepted Service Appointment (other than listed)
 Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
 Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 Not Applicable


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. For example: GS-05, IR-02, WG-04.


9.
Are you a current or former Federal employee with reinstatement eligibility?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


10.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No


11.

Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) within the past 5 years from the federal government, this is also known as a buyout?

If "Yes", you must provide a copy of your separation SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) that documents the separation incentive/buyout. If you received a separation incentive and re-employed within 5 years following the effective date of
separation you will be required to repay the entire amount of the buyout (including all deductions for taxes) to your former agency. I understand this requirement applies to any employment, of any length, in any entity of the Federal Government.
Depending on the Public Law code, the separation incentive was awarded under, it may require the repayment be made prior to the employee's first day of employment or allow for the repayment be made over an extended period of time.

 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


12.
Regarding the effectiveness of our recruitment strategies; how did you first hear about this job?
Automated USAJOBS saved search notification
Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc.)
Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)
IRS Careers Website
Referred by an IRS employee
Attended a recruitment event Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet and Greet, Meetup, etc.
IRS Veterans Program Office
School/University announcement/career counselor
Organizational third party referral diversity or community organization, church, unemployment office, etc.
Newspaper print or online
Radio
Transit/Bus Advertisement
Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites
Banner Advertisement-Movie Theater Websites
IRS Post Card Mailing
Classified Advertisement Website, Craigslist, Angies List, etc.
IRS/FNS Hiring Event
Other
I prefer not to answer


13.
If you answered "Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc." in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the job board or search agent other than USAJOBS you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the Social Media platform you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Attended a recruitment event (Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet & Greet, Meetup, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name and state of the recruiting event.

If you answered "School/University announcement/career counselor" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the school/university of the announcement where you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Third party referral, such as diversity or community organization, or employment office (Federal, state or local)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the third party referral and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Newspaper (print/online)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the newspaper and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Radio" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the radio station and state you heard the advertisement.

If you answered "Transit/Bus Advertisement" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the city and state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Movie Theater Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Classified Advertisement Website (Craigslist, Angie's List, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the website, city and state.

If you answered "Other" in the previous question, please specify in the box below.


14.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former noncareer SES appointee, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under Limited Term SES or Limited Emergency SES appointment in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


15.
If yes, identify the position held, the employing agency/organization, and the dates of the appointment. Please provide SF-50s showing your political appointment and, if applicable, resignation/termination SF-50.


16.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 Yes
 No


17.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


18.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


19.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AL1213) 417 20th St N, Birmingham, AL
 AB. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AR. (AZ0058) 300 W Congress, Tucson, AZ
 AS. (CA7803) 700 P St, Fresno, CA
 AT. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AU. (CA0273) 501 W Ocean Blvd, Long Beach, CA
 AV. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AW. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AX. (CA8050) 290 North D St, San Bernardino, CA
 AY. (CA6109) 701 B St, San Diego, CA
 AZ. (CA8207) 100 First St, San Francisco, CA
 BA. (CA6116) 55 S Market St, San Jose, CA
 BB. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 BC. (CT3323) 333 E River Dr, Hartford, CT
 BD. (CT0061) 150 Court St, New Haven, CT
 BE. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 BF. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 BG. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 BH. (FL2533) 1000 S Pine Island Rd, Plantation, FL
 BI. (FL2971) 2203 N Lois Ave, Tampa, FL
 BJ. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 BK. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 BL. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BM. (IA0112) 210 Walnut St, Des Moines, IA
 BN. (KY3123) 7300 Turfway Rd, Florence, KY
 BO. (KY0086) 600 Dr Martin L King, Louisville, KY
 B. (LA0034) 600 S Maestri Pl, New Orleans, LA
 C. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 D. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 E. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 F. (MA0153) 10 Causeway, Boston, MA
 G. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 H. (MI2210)3251 N Evergreen NE, Grand Rapids, MI
 I. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 J. (MS0083) 100 W Capitol, Jackson, MS
 K. (MO1840) 2345 Grand, Kansas City, MO
 L. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 M. (NE0051) 1616 Capitol Ave, Omaha, NE
 N. (NV7516) 110 N City Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV
 O. (NH6185) 75 Portsmouth Blvd, Portsmouth, NH
 P. (NJ4555) 1 Newark Center, Newark, NJ
 Q. (NM1464) 6200 Jefferson St NE, Albuquerque, NM
 R. (NY7340) 130 S Elmwood Ave, Buffalo, NY
 S. (NY0376)1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 U. (NY6412) 1600 Stewart Ave, Westbury, NY
 V. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 W. (NC2668) 4905 Koger Blvd, Greensboro, NC
 X. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 Y. (OH0208) 200 N High St, Columbus, OH
 Z. (OH2320) 6450 Rockside Woods Blvd, Independence, OH
 AA. (OK1356) 55 N Robinson, Oklahoma City, OK
 AC. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 AD. (PA0277) 600 Arch St, Philadelphia, PA
 AE. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 AF. (SC0068) 1835 Assembly St, Columbia, SC
 AG. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AH. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 AI. (TX0227) 300 E Eighth St, Austin, TX
 AJ. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 AK. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AL. (TX2982) 8122 Datapoint Dr, San Antonio, TX
 AM. (UT1431)2484 S Washington Blvd, Ogden, UT
 AN. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AO. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AP. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AQ. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-14:
You must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include at least three (3) of the following:
• Experience applying tax law and/or demonstrating knowledge of basic and intermediate accounting principles to analyze and interpret accounting records or legal issues to resolve tax issues or determine tax liabilities.
• Experience preparing, examining, interpreting and analyzing financial statements of multiple entities (e.g., corporations, partnerships, estates, trusts) to resolve tax disputes.
• Experience with General Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) process from financial to tax administration.
• Experience conducting legal research and interpreting the law in situations where there are uncertainties or conflicts in statutes, regulations, case law, precedence or other guidance to determine and apply the appropriate intent of the law in tax situations.
• Experience applying litigation procedures and making judgments involving matters of law particularly as they relate to resolving tax disputes; experience providing tax law advice or guidance to clients or employers.
• Experience negotiating the resolution of legal tax disputes arising from corporate consolidations, mergers, or estate and gift tax valuation issues

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
Select the response that best describes your experience serving on a team, panel, committee, or task force as a representative for an organization regarding technical tax issues.

 Contributed to a group as described above as a technical resource but not a member of the group.
 Selected to participate in groups as described above that have recommended processes to be adapted into a work environment.
 Led a group as described above to complete assigned project and/or develop processes.
 Served as a facilitator for the groups described above and/or I am often consulted by others as an expert in participating in these types of work groups.
 None of the above.


3.
Have you negotiated either by yourself or as member of a small team to resolve a significant tax issue having national impact?

 Yes
 No


4.
Describe your experience in communicating information or negotiating resolution of matters, including making presentations to diverse groups that may include high ranking management or government officials, coworkers and/or clients.

 A. Justified controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 B. Delivered formal presentations or training sessions concerning accounting, tax law, auditing, or financial information.
 C. Persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow recommended courses of action regarding business tax law matters.
 D. Participated in meetings to discuss audit plans, present findings, and resolve material audit or tax related problems, issues and disputes.
 E. Recommended a course of action to resolve an existing or potential tax law problem.
 F. None of the above.


5.
Which of the following describes your experience working with Senior Leaders of an organization?

 A. Worked with Managers, Executives on implementing process change
 B. Used data and process knowledge to help influence senior leaders on how to proceed with process improvements
 C. Developed business case to initiate new projects/process improvements
 D. Developed and make presentations to senior leadership
 E. Developed reports and performance measures for the business
 F. None of the above


6.
How would you best describe your experience in communicating information or negotiating resolution of tax matters to team members/ coworkers and/or clients.
 Delivered formal presentations concerning accounting, tax law, auditing, or financial information.
 Persuaded others with differing goals and interests to follow recommended courses of action regarding business tax law matters.
 Participated in meetings to discuss audit plans, present findings, and resolve tax related problems, issues and disputes.
 None of the above.


7.
When faced with a problem, which of the following are you most likely to do first?

 Gather, verify, and analyze many kinds of information that affect the problem.
 Define the problem and determine the steps to take to reach a solution.
 Research the nature and the history of the problem.
 Study the characteristics of the problem.
 Refer the problem to a senior employee or manager.
 None of the above.


8.
Which of the following best describes your ability to make decisions at work?

 Implement decisions independently which are supported without change by my manager.
 Implement decisions which are routinely reviewed and implemented by my manager.
 Implement recommendations for decisions made by my manager.
 None of the above.


9.
Please describe your experience collaborating with a team to address and resolve a complex tax dispute related to business matters.

 I have been a member of a team which has negotiated and resolved complex business tax disputes.
 I have been the team leader directing team member activities in resolving complex business tax disputes.
 I have participated in training designed to provide skills in working in teams.
 I have resolved cases myself without team members, but I have sought the advice and concurrence of technical subject matter experts to determine the correct resolution of a complex business tax issue.
 None of the above.


10.
Select the response(s) that describes your ability to set well-defined and realistic goals, displaying a high level of initiative, effort, and commitment towards completing assignments in a timely manner.
 A. Initiated, conducted, and/or completed tax related dispute resolutions during a specified time period.
 B. Researched a tax issue, analyzing what documentation is necessary to support a legal position in a tax dispute, securing the documentation and taking the necessary action in resolving tax liabilities for individual or business taxpayers.
 C. Completed business tax dispute assignments, assignments on schedule without specific and detailed instructions from my management.
 D. Determined project plan timelines and ensuring that these timelines are met.
 E. None of the above.


11.
Select the response(s) that describes your experience using automated systems to access, create, edit, print, send, retrieve, or manipulate data, files and other information.
 A. Automated templates to create correspondence (letters, memos, forms).
 B. Automated systems to perform tax computations for complex individual, specialty tax issues, business taxpayers.
 C. Accessed and navigating automated Databases.
 D. Researched and retrieved data from automated information systems.
 E. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following describes your experience applying the Internal revenue code, including the related laws, court decisions, regulations and precedent rulings, to assigned inventory.

 A. Resolved cases involving tax law issues, and identified or advised direct report employee(s) on the application of tax law using financial and Collection principles
 B. Sought out by internal and/or external stakeholders to provide guidance for resolution of complex cases with tax law issues (e.g., nominee, alter-ego, fraud, research tax credit)
 C. Served as a classroom instructor for advanced training/on-the-job instructor (OJI) for basic training
 D. Served as a subject matter expert on basic tax law issues (e.g., trust fund, adjustments, IRC 6020b) in their area or territory
 E. Received training in applying tax law (e.g., advanced training)
 F. None of the above


13.
Please describe your experience on how you decide if the facts or legal principles from a court case are relevant to a taxpayer's situation.

 Analyzed both the court case and the taxpayer’s situation by identifying key facts and legal principles, comparing similarities and differences, and deciding if the court’s reasoning applies to the taxpayer’s case.
 Reviewed the facts and legal principles of the court case and the taxpayer’s situation. If they align, I apply the court’s reasoning; if not, I consider whether the precedent still applies or a different approach is needed.
 Compared a court case to a taxpayer’s situation; I look for matching facts and legal issues. If they are alike, I use the court’s decision as guidance. If not, I try to find other cases or rules that are a better fit for the taxpayer’s circumstances.
 None of the above


14.
Which of the following best describes your experience in applying accounting principles.
 Conducted certified audits of financial records.
 Analyze financial statements, tax returns, supporting schedules to ensure transactions are properly reported and consist with applicable standards for corporations and flow-through entities.
 Maintained books and records for a small business.
 Prepared, analyzed, or reviewed tax-related accounting records, including reconciliation of tax accounts and verification of compliance with federal, state, or local tax regulations.
 None of the above.


15.
Select the response that best describes your experience in preparing workpaper/memos that present facts, findings, logical conclusions, and persuasive arguments (e.g., wrote a thesis, briefing papers, policy papers, complex research papers, etc.) on a complex individual specialty tax or business taxpayer.

 Prepare workpapers/memos that present facts, findings, logical conclusions, and strong arguments. My work includes writing Appeals Case Memoranda, legal briefings, and policy analyses, all requiring careful evaluation and persuasive reasoning.
 Prepare workpapers/memos that explain facts, summarize findings, and offer clear conclusions. Examples include writing memos and briefing papers, where I draw logical connections and support my recommendations.
 Prepare workpapers/memos focused on presenting facts and findings, such as short research assignments or position statements. My arguments are straightforward and I rely on established information to reach conclusions.
 None of the above.


16.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience identifying problems that may affect strategies/initiatives and suggesting alternatives to overcome those problems?

 Suggested alternatives to overcome problems identified by others.
 Worked with others to identify and resolve problems.
 Identified potential problems and alternatives for resolution for program, acquisition, or other functional area projects.
 Identified problems and directed others to develop alternatives to overcome those problems.
 None of the above


17.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙