Position Title
Clinical Psychologist (Specialty Program Coordinator - Resolve)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
SER-26-13067038 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


2.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


3.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


6.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.



1.
Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above?
 Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.
 No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


2.
FOR THE GS-12:

In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes, I meet all education requirements and experience for the GS-12 position.
 No


3.
Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Selective Factor:

Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia.
Do you meet the selective factor for this position?
 Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist.
 No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.

You are the newly appointed Specialty Program Coordinator for a Skills Program unit housing 60 offenders with serious mental illness in a federal correctional facility. During your first week, you notice that treatment plans lack evidence-based interventions, psychiatric medication compliance is poorly tracked, and there is minimal coordination between psychology staff and health services. The interdisciplinary team meetings are irregular, and staff members are unclear about their roles in treatment delivery. The previous coordinator retired suddenly, leaving no transition documentation.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate program oversight approach in this situation?

 Focus primarily on establishing your own individual therapy caseload first to understand the offender population, then gradually address the systemic issues over the next six months as you become more familiar with the facility culture and staff personalities.
 Immediately implement a comprehensive restructuring by establishing weekly interdisciplinary treatment team meetings with health services staff, revising treatment plans to incorporate evidence-based cognitive behavioral interventions, creating a psychiatric medication tracking system, and developing clear clinical case management protocols with defined staff roles.
 Conduct a complete assessment of all 60 offenders yourself to identify their mental health needs, then develop a written report for your supervisor documenting the deficiencies you observed before making any changes to current operations.
 Schedule group training sessions for staff on general mental health topics and request that team members begin documenting their activities more thoroughly in the electronic health record system while maintaining current treatment approaches.
 None of the above.


2.

An offender with schizophrenia and co-occurring depression in the STAGES Program has been resistant to participating in the unit's psycho-educational groups and has made minimal progress in his individual sessions. He reports feeling that "talking doesn't help" and states that the group content doesn't address his specific symptoms of paranoia and social withdrawal. His treatment plan requires both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy components. You need to re-engage this offender in meaningful therapeutic work that addresses his serious mental illness within the correctional treatment program framework.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate psychotherapy approach in this situation?

 Provide individual cognitive behavioral psychotherapy sessions focused on his specific paranoid thinking patterns and social anxiety, while also facilitating his participation in an evidence-based group psychotherapy protocol for offenders with serious mental illness that incorporates cognitive restructuring techniques for his symptoms.
 Refer the offender to another psychologist who may have better rapport with him, while you co-facilitate the existing psycho-educational group with a practicum student who can bring fresh perspectives to the group content and help monitor his participation.
 Observe his behavior during group sessions and document his resistance in his treatment file, then consult with your supervisor about whether he should be removed from the program if he continues to refuse participation in the group therapy component.
 Meet with him individually to build rapport and provide supportive counseling focused on his adjustment to the correctional environment, while encouraging him to attend the psycho-educational groups where other staff members facilitate structured skill-building activities.
 None of the above.


3.

An offender in the Resolve Program is exhibiting significant behavioral deterioration and cognitive disorganization. His case manager suspects an undiagnosed psychotic disorder or personality disorder that may be complicating his bipolar disorder diagnosis. The treatment team needs a comprehensive psychological evaluation to inform treatment planning, medication management, and his suitability for continued participation in the program. You need to conduct a thorough assessment that will provide actionable information about his psychological functioning, diagnostic clarity, and treatment recommendations.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate psychological assessment approach in this situation?

 Conduct a mental status interview to assess his current functioning, review his available medical and institutional records, gather psycho-social history information from him and collateral sources, and document your clinical observations in a summary report for the treatment team.
 Administer and interpret a comprehensive psychological test battery including the MMPI-2 for personality and psychopathology assessment, the WAIS-IV for cognitive functioning, and the PAI for additional diagnostic clarity, then integrate all data sources including clinical interviews and records review to prepare a formal psychological evaluation report with specific treatment recommendations.
 Meet with the offender to conduct a clinical interview about his symptoms and behavioral changes, then administer the MMPI-2 and score it according to the manual, forwarding the raw scores and your interview notes to the facility's Chief Psychologist for interpretation and report writing.
 Request that he complete self-report screening instruments during his next psychology appointment, score these measures, and provide the scores to the psychiatrist for medication management considerations while documenting your observations in his electronic health record.
 None of the above.


4.

During an afternoon group therapy session in the FIT Program, one of the female offenders suddenly becomes highly agitated and begins yelling that she is hearing voices telling her to harm herself. She stands up abruptly, overturning her chair, and starts pacing rapidly while pulling at her hair. Two other group members appear frightened and move away from her. The offender approaches the window and begins striking it with her fist. A correctional officer stationed outside the room is visible but has not yet entered. You need to manage this rapidly escalating crisis situation to ensure safety while providing appropriate clinical intervention.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate crisis response approach in this situation?

 Immediately alert the correctional officer to enter the room and physically restrain the offender while you evacuate the other group members to a safe location, then document the incident thoroughly and schedule a follow-up individual session with the offender for later in the week.
 Use de-escalation techniques by speaking to the offender in a calm, measured tone, positioning yourself safely while directing her away from the window, employing verbal strategies to reduce her emotional distress, and simultaneously signaling the officer to be ready while assessing whether you can defuse the situation before it escalates to a higher level of crisis requiring physical intervention.
 Continue the group session while closely monitoring the situation, asking one of the calmer group members to speak to the agitated offender and try to calm her down, which would provide a therapeutic peer intervention opportunity while you maintain your role as group facilitator.
 Step out of the group room to immediately notify your supervisor and the facility's medical staff about the situation, requesting their guidance on how to proceed and asking them to respond to the unit to assess the offender's need for crisis intervention services.
 None of the above.


5.

The Bureau of Prisons is considering implementing a new therapeutic module for the Transitional Care Unit (TCU) to address persistent auditory hallucinations in offenders with treatment-resistant schizophrenia. As the Specialty Program Coordinator, you have been asked to lead the program development effort. Current interventions on the unit have shown limited effectiveness for this specific symptom cluster, and leadership wants to ensure any new intervention is evidence-based and appropriate for the correctional setting. You need to develop a proposal that incorporates current research knowledge and best practices.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate research-informed approach in this situation?

 Conduct a comprehensive review of the available literature on evidence-based interventions for auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia, evaluate the research on interventions such as cognitive therapy for psychosis and acceptance-based approaches, assess their applicability to the correctional environment, and assist with implementing a treatment protocol based on this literature review while participating in program outcome evaluation.
 Review several recent journal articles on schizophrenia treatment that you find through a database search, summarize the general findings in a brief memo to your supervisor, and recommend adopting whichever intervention appears most commonly cited in the literature.
 Attend a continuing education workshop on evidence-based practices for serious mental illness to maintain your working knowledge of current interventions, then meet with your colleagues to discuss what approaches they have found helpful in their clinical experience with this population.
 Prepare a detailed written literature review examining randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses of interventions for auditory hallucinations, synthesize the findings to identify the most empirically supported approaches, develop a comprehensive treatment protocol document for staff, and create a program evaluation framework to assess implementation effectiveness.
 None of the above.


6.

You are the Specialty Program Coordinator for the Secure Administrative Unit (SAU), and you supervise three doctoral-level psychologists and two psychology interns. One of your subordinate psychologists has been submitting psychological assessment reports that meet basic requirements but lack diagnostic precision and treatment recommendations that integrate current evidence-based practices. During informal conversations, this psychologist has expressed interest in developing stronger assessment and case formulation skills. You want to enhance this staff member's clinical competencies while ensuring quality services to offenders.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?

 Provide direct clinical supervision by reviewing the psychologist's assessment reports before they are finalized, offering specific feedback on diagnostic formulation and evidence-based treatment recommendations, mentoring the psychologist through case consultations on complex assessments, and providing clinical training on integrating test data with treatment planning for offenders with mental illness.
 Meet with the psychologist informally to provide collegial advice about general assessment practices, share some journal articles about evidence-based treatment approaches that might be helpful, and suggest that they observe how you write your reports to get ideas for improvement.
 Assign the psychologist to work alongside one of your more experienced staff members who can demonstrate proper assessment procedures, while you monitor their productivity metrics to ensure they are completing reports within assigned deadlines.
 Schedule the psychologist to attend an external training workshop on psychological assessment, then follow up afterward to discuss what they learned and ask them to present key concepts to the rest of the team during a staff meeting.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙