Position Title
Building Manager (Chief, Building Management Section)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
FAC-26-13045305 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


9.
This is a secondary/non-law enforcement coverage position. Individuals that DO NOT have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement are ineligible for secondary law enforcement position(s) and coverage but may still be considered for a non-law enforcement position.

Individuals selected who are under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and who have not had three years "primary" law enforcement retirement coverage, will not be covered by law enforcement retirement while in this position. To regain coverage, individuals must return to a position with "primary" coverage.
 Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position.
 No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.)


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Chief, Building Management Section position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.



1.
You are the Chief of Building Management Section and have been tasked with addressing a controversial proposal to construct a new correctional facility in a residential area. The project has attracted significant attention from multiple stakeholders. A city council has scheduled a public hearing where historical preservation societies are concerned about the architectural impact on nearby historic districts, local residents are worried about property values and safety, the architectural review board needs to understand design compliance, federal agency partners require coordination on shared infrastructure, and your Executive Staff needs you to represent the Bureau's position effectively. The project timeline is compressed, and you must secure necessary permits while maintaining positive relationships with all parties.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?

 Attend the public hearing and present the Bureau's proposal, focusing your remarks on explaining the general construction timeline and basic facility requirements to the community members, while arranging separate follow-up meetings with the architectural board and federal partners to discuss technical details.
 Lead a comprehensive community presentation at the public hearing where you address concerns from historical societies, negotiate permit requirements with the architectural review board, present the Bureau's official position as approved by Executive Staff, coordinate with other federal agencies on shared utility and infrastructure needs, and engage with construction management firms—demonstrating your role as the primary spokesperson for this high-visibility, multi-stakeholder project.
 Prepare and deliver a detailed technical presentation to your Regional Office management explaining the facility project development process, including construction phases, budget allocations, and compliance with building codes, while delegating the community hearing attendance to a subordinate staff member who can handle routine public complaints.
 Participate in the scheduled public hearing by providing information about the facility's design specifications to government representatives and consultants in attendance, answer questions from community members about basic building management operations, and coordinate with the project manager to ensure all departments are informed of the hearing outcomes.
 None of the above.


2.
As Chief of Building Management Section, you are overseeing a large-scale, multi-phase correctional facility construction program involving five different building types across three regions. The program includes simultaneous contracts with various architectural firms, engineering consultants, and construction contractors, each using different construction techniques and facing unique site-specific challenges. Your Regional Director has requested comprehensive documentation, the Office of Inspector General has announced an external audit of your construction procurement procedures, Congressional staff has submitted inquiries about cost overruns and timeline delays, and you need to provide clear direction to multiple field engineers and architectural firms working on different aspects of the program.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?

 Independently draft informational memorandums to your subordinate staff and field engineers explaining the current status of each construction phase, prepare an updated Institution Supplement outlining new safety procedures for the construction sites, and compose a memorandum to your Regional Director recommending resource reallocation among the projects.
 Develop comprehensive technical reports responding to the Congressional staff inquiries with detailed explanations and justifications, create an operating manual that establishes new procurement procedures based on updated agency policy, write responses to the external audit findings, and prepare detailed project proposals and status reports for executives that will be shared with oversight agencies.
 Prepare status reports covering all five construction projects that detail the varied building types, multiple contracts, diverse construction techniques, and project-specific challenges; develop statements of work for architectural and engineering firms; write a briefing paper responding to the OIG audit addressing your procurement procedures; prepare executive correspondence addressing Congressional concerns; and create standard operating procedures explaining applicable regulations for the construction program.
 Write technical reports for your Regional Director providing information about facilities projects and their development progress, develop written responses to information requests from upper management regarding construction delays, prepare memorandums for bureau-wide distribution about the new construction program, and update existing policies to reflect current construction procedures.
 None of the above.


3.
You are the Chief of Building Management Section responsible for fiscal management of a $45 million dollar allocation for multiple facility construction and renovations projects.  During the planning phase for a new institution activation you discover the original procurement approach for specialized security equipment and telecommunications infrastructure would require lengthy competitive bidding process that could delay the institution opening by six months.  However, while researching federal regulations and existing General Services Administration (GSA) guidelines, you identify an existing interagency agreement with another federal agency that already has a contract for identical security systems. You also notice that by consolidating certain equipment purchases with an ongoing facilities project at another institution, you could achieve cost savings of approximately $2.3 million. Your subordinate procurement staff is uncertain about the regulatory authority to deviate from the standard competitive bidding process and needs your guidance.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate procurement approach in this situation?

 Research and interpret the relevant federal and agency procurement regulations to determine that utilizing the existing interagency agreement is permissible and will result in significant time and cost savings to the Government; make the decision to pursue this alternate acquisition strategy; document the regulatory basis for the decision; and provide detailed guidance to your subordinate procurement staff on how to properly apply these procurement regulations to execute the interagency agreement and consolidated purchase approach.
 Review the annual budget submission to ensure adequate funds are allocated for the procurement, supervise your staff in the procurement of the security equipment and telecommunications infrastructure through the standard competitive process, manage the project funds as the responsible official for this construction program, and ensure procurement regulations are properly applied when purchasing the various types of supplies, equipment, and services needed for the new institution.
 Maintain close monitoring of the procurement timeline and expenditures to keep the project on schedule and within budget, track all expenditures to maintain a positive balance in the $45 million allocation, contact the vendors regarding potential delivery timeline improvements and service options, and prepare monthly progress reports on the procurement activities for senior management review.
 Work with your budget office to implement the procurement functions within the allocated $45 million budget, supervise the procurement process for equipment and materials needed for the new institution activation, manage the construction funds as the project manager, and ensure your staff applies the appropriate procurement regulations when purchasing security systems and telecommunications equipment.
 None of the above.


4.
As Chief of Building Management Section, you are responsible for overseeing all aspects of the Bureau's nationwide facilities operations. Recent legislative changes have mandated new seismic safety standards for federal buildings in certain geographic zones, updated energy conservation requirements that affect your existing institutions, and revised hazardous waste management protocols. Simultaneously, you are leading the development of agency-wide guidelines for a new life safety program in public areas of correctional facilities, conducting architectural reviews of plans and specifications for three new institution construction projects in different regions, coordinating physical plant review studies at aging facilities to determine renovation priorities, and managing the institution activation process for a newly constructed facility. Your engineers and architects have presented you with conflicting recommendations about whether certain existing facilities can be cost-effectively upgraded to meet the new seismic standards or should be replaced entirely. Additionally, you must make budget recommendations for the Buildings and Facilities program for the upcoming fiscal year.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate application of building management knowledge in this situation?

 Monitor the progress of the three new institution construction activities to ensure they comply with the updated legislative requirements, ensure that qualified engineering staff and appropriate materials are available at each site to begin construction on schedule, and schedule the different specialty trades (electrical, plumbing, HVAC, security systems) to perform their services during all phases of the construction projects.
 Oversee multiple facility management duties across the Bureau's institutions while managing the three construction projects simultaneously, monitor energy conservation program compliance at multiple facilities to ensure they meet the new legislative requirements, supervise maintenance contracts at various institutions to address the updated hazardous waste protocols, and ensure all facilities maintain code compliance with the new seismic safety standards.
 Develop comprehensive agency guidelines for the new life safety program in public buildings, create updated policy for energy conservation implementation based on the new legislation, establish procedures for hazardous waste management that comply with revised protocols, and develop standards for Seismic Safety Property compliance; conduct architectural reviews of the plans and specifications for the three construction projects; after consulting with your engineers and architects regarding the conflicting seismic upgrade recommendations, apply your professional judgment to present alternative solutions with cost-benefit analyses to your supervisor; assist in administering the Buildings and Facilities program budget by incorporating the new legislative requirements into fiscal projections; and lead the institution activation process.
 Direct the implementation of updated procedures for multiple specialty areas including the new energy conservation requirements and hazardous waste protocols across Bureau facilities, review the architectural plans for the three construction projects to ensure compliance with new seismic standards, coordinate with your engineering staff to evaluate the feasibility of upgrading existing facilities, and prepare recommendations for the Buildings and Facilities budget that account for the costs associated with implementing the new legislative mandates.
 None of the above.


5.
You are the Chief of Building Management Section supervising a team of 12 professional staff members including architects, engineers, and project managers who handle the Bureau's nationwide construction and facilities programs. Over the past six months, you have noticed that two of your subordinate project managers are consistently missing deadlines on critical construction milestone reports, one engineer has shown significant improvement in technical skills but lacks confidence in presenting recommendations to senior management, and another staff member has expressed interest in advancing to a supervisory role but needs development in leadership competencies. Additionally, your monthly staff meetings have become routine information-sharing sessions that your team finds less engaging. You want to maximize your team's performance, support their career development, improve morale, and ensure all critical work products meet deadlines while maintaining accountability.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?

 Provide regular supervision to your subordinate employees by completing performance evaluations that address each individual's strengths and weaknesses, conduct performance counseling sessions with the two project managers who are missing deadlines to understand the root causes, adjust staff duties by temporarily reassigning some of the project managers' workload to other team members to respond to the immediate deadline pressures, delegate authority to your senior staff members to oversee certain aspects of the construction programs, and counsel the employees who are missing deadlines prior to initiating any performance-based disciplinary actions.
 Redesign your monthly staff meetings to combine routine business with targeted technical training sessions that build job knowledge in areas where staff need development (such as presentation skills and leadership); utilize the performance appraisal system to formally track and document each subordinate's progress on specific assignments and ensure accountability for meeting all deadlines; establish a formal mentoring program where you coach the employee interested in supervisory roles and pair the engineer who needs presentation confidence with a senior staff member who excels in this area; and develop program directives and lesson plans for classes designed to improve performance and support career development across your section.
 Coordinate and track due dates for all construction projects and facilities programs to ensure your subordinates complete their assignments on time, reorganize some of your staff functions to maximize work output by redistributing certain responsibilities among team members, develop and deliver a training class to improve performance and offer career development opportunities in technical areas, review work completed by your subordinates to ensure compliance with Bureau regulations and construction standards, identify the specific performance deficiencies of the two project managers missing deadlines and establish a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP), and implement work assignments in a way that maximizes subordinate work product and increases team morale.
 Meet individually with each of the 12 staff members to understand their career goals and development needs, provide additional guidance and resources to the two project managers struggling with deadlines, create opportunities for the engineer to practice presentation skills in lower-stakes environments before presenting to senior management, work with the employee interested in supervision to identify relevant training courses, and recognize staff achievements during team meetings to improve engagement.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙