Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13072707-HQ-EP-IMP
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service? Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Alameda, CA
 District of Columbia, DC
 Miami, FL
 Saint Petersburg, FL
 New Orleans, LA
 Selfridge ANG Base, MI
 Alexandria, VA
 Portsmouth, VA
Min Quals 1811-14
.
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.
1.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service or private sector which includes: Conducting criminal investigations into complex offenses involving CG personnel, assets, facilities, or operations AND evaluating crime scenes, physical evidence, and related data to determine structure of polygraph examinations AND preparing and presenting investigative findings to CGIS leadership AND recommending enhancements to polygraph protocols in formulating long-term polygraph policies and initiatives.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
2.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
