Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12996179-AF-26-026 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you Officer in the grades of O3 - O5?
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O3 - O5.
 No. I am not an Officer in the grades of O3 - O5.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


4.
This position is a Financial Management Level 3 Certified position IAW the National Defense Authorization Act 2012, Public Law 112-81, Subtitle F-Financial Management Section 1599d. If the candidate does not possess the Financial Management Level 3 Certification: As a condition of employment, the employee must complete the financial management level three certification within 24 months of appointment. Do you understand failure to comply with this requirement will cause removal from the position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses technical financial expertise, which includes a broad knowledge of agency operating programs alongside the ability to utilize financial management principles, methods, and systems to develop, apply, and adjust financial plans that attain agency objectives. Candidates must demonstrate analytical and administrative capability through skill in collecting and analyzing data accurately, applying procedures by interpreting program material, and exercising sound, independent judgment to solve financial problems and administer programs. Furthermore, the position requires strong leadership and program management skills to plan, direct, and coordinate complex programs, as well as select, develop, supervise, train, and mentor a subordinate staff. Finally, applicants must possess exceptional communication and interpersonal skills, characterized by the ability to communicate clearly and effectively in both written reports and oral presentations, and the ability to establish and maintain productive working relationships across all levels of management using tact, ingenuity, and resourcefulness.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-13: Do you possess 1-year equivalent specialized experience to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) before being eligible for the next grade level. Must have fundamental working experiences with a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the financial management occupational series and grade.  Financial Management Certification Career level, and assigned military skills. Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Applicants who have the 1 year of appropriate specialized experience, as indicated in the table, are not required by this standard to have general experience, education above the high school level, or any additional specialized experience to meet the minimum qualification requirements. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience directing financial management policy and overseeing the proper obligation, accounting, and disbursement of federal funds for a complex installation or organization. Provide a specific example of how you evaluated the impact of higher-headquarters programs (e.g., DoD, USAF, NGB) and coordinated internal and external resources to resolve a major fiscal management challenge.


4.
Describe your experience serving as the principal financial advisor to senior leadership (e.g., Wing Commander, Senior Staff, or equivalent corporate executives). How do you maintain awareness of diverse operational missions to advise on funding levels for competing requirements such as civilian employment, logistics, infrastructure maintenance, and training? Provide an example where you analyzed a financial deficiency and successfully recommended a course of action to senior management.


5.
Describe your experience executing statutory financial responsibilities, such as acting as a Certifying Officer, managing pecuniary liabilities, or serving in an equivalent fiduciary capacity. Detail your approach to interpreting legal financial decisions (e.g., Comptroller General decisions), establishing internal controls, and ensuring expenditures comply with federal statutes to preclude Anti-Deficiency Act violations.


6.
This position requires balancing dual fiduciary responsibilities to local leadership (Wing Commander) and higher headquarters (United States Property and Fiscal Officer). Describe a situation where you had to navigate conflicting priorities or complex financial guidelines between local mission requirements and higher-level fiscal directives. How did you ensure the objectives of both entities were fully considered and finalized?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙