Position Title
Construction Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
335-LGY-13022044-26-MR-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who:

• formerly occupied a career or career conditional position at the VA within the preceding two years before applying for reemployment at VA; AND,
• voluntarily departed such position, or was subject to a reduction in force, and had a satisfactory performance record while occupying such position; AND,
• since departing VA has maintained licensing requirements, related to the position, if any, and gained skills, knowledge, or other factors related to the position; AND,
• possesses at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position sought?

Appointment under this authority is exempt from competitive examining procedures and Veteran's preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in P.L. 115-46, VA Choice and Quality Employment Act of 2017, section 204.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you the spouse of a current or former member of the Armed Forces? In accordance with revised 5 U.S.C. 3330d(b), the head of an agency may now appoint noncompetitively: the spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty, the spouse of a 100 percent disabled member of the armed forces, or the spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces.

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty.
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
Based on Service Member's Death
As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

To verify your eligibility, submit the following applicable documents:

Documentation verifying marriage: (i.e., marriage license, certificate or other government issued document certifying marriage to your military spouse or veteran.)
A copy of your spouses active-duty military orders.
DD-214: Certificate of release or discharge from active duty (Military spouses of 100% disabled separated or retired veterans and widows or widowers, who are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
DD 1300: Report of Casualty (Military spouses who are widows and widowers, and are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
Veterans Affairs Benefit Documentation of Deceased or Disabled Veteran. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Military Spouses resources

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service in an agency covered by an Interchange Agreement with at least one year of service in that position?  

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


12.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, certifying your documented disability and eligibility under Schedule A.

 Yes
 No


13.
Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field box 24. is 1 or 2); AND, 
your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field box 34. is 1).
highest grade previously held (Grade or Level field box 18.)
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


15.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Little Rock, AR
 B. San Diego, CA
 C. Saint Paul, MN
 D. Lees Summit, MO
 E. Omaha, NE
 F. Cleveland, OH
 G. San Juan, PR
 H. San Antonio, TX
 I. Salt Lake City, UT
 J. Seattle, WA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION INSTRUCTIONS: This vacancy is opened to Agency Employees (Department of Veterans Affairs), P.L. 115-46, Sec 204; Appointment of a qualified former VA career-career conditional employee (P.L. 115-46 S204), T5 30% or More Disabled Veterans (30% DV), T5 Veterans Recruitment Authority (VRA), T5 Appointment of Certain Military Spouses (5 CFR 315.612) (Cert Mil Spouse), T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), T5 Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), T5 National Service (peace Corps and VISTA)(NSVISTA), T5 Other - Interchange Eligibilities (Other), T5 People with Disabilities, Schedule A (Disabled/Sch A), T5 Reinstatement (Reinstatement), T5 Transfer (Transfer), T5 Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA).

Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Construction Analyst (SAH Agent) GS-0828-12 .
I am currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
I am a former employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who: formerly occupied a career or career conditional position at the VA within the preceding two years before applying for reemployment at VA; AND, voluntarily departed such position, or was subject to a reduction in force, and had a satisfactory performance record while occupying such position; AND, since departing VA has maintained licensing requirements, related to the position, if any, and gained skills, knowledge, or other factors related to the position; AND, possesses at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position sought
I am a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND: have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR, retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more
I am the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces. (Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty. Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty service member) To verify your eligibility, submit: (1) Copy of your marriage license. (2) Proof of service members active duty status. -OR- the spouse of a service member who: is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces due to a service-connected injury; AND on the date on which the member retires, is released, or is discharged, has a disability rating of 100 percent under the standard schedule of rating disabilities in use by the Department of Veterans Affairs
I am the spouse of a deceased service member who: was married to the service member on the date the service member died, while on active duty in the Armed Forces; AND has not remarried. To verify your eligibility, submit: (1) a copy of your marriage license, documentation identifying marital status at the time of death and proof that you have not remarried. (2) DD-214 documenting the death of the service member while on active duty, the death certificate; or a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc. specifying the service member's death while on active duty.
I am a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? -OR- Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? -OR- Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?
I am no longer a Federal employee, but I have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government and am eligible for reinstatement.
I am currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs and qualify to be transferred.
I am a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND: served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR, are entitled to veterans' preference and am eligible under VEOA.
I have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies me for Schedule A Disability appointments.
I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
I am a current or former federal employee displaced from an agency other than the Hiring Agency and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
I am a current Federal employee in the excepted service in an agency covered by an Interchange Agreement with at least one year of service in that position? -OR- a current: Postal Career Service Employee; Postal Rate Commission Employee; Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or, Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
I am a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR I am a disabled veteran; OR served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR received an Armed Forces Service Medal.
My status is not described in any of the options above and therefore I am ineligible because I am NOT in the Area of Consideration (AOC).
I am a current or former Land Management employee who was initially hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment in the competitive service in accordance with 5 C.F.R. 316 and I have NOT received a permanent appointment; AND I have served a time-limited appointment for a period OR periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more year; AND I have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service. NOTE: Former time-limited Land Management employees MUST apply for a permanent position within two years of the most recent date of separation from a land management agency for reasons other than misconduct OR performance.


INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR) INSTRUCTIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.

This position does have an IOR (Individual Occupational Requirement) that must be met in addition to the Time-in-Grade and regular Specialized Experience qualifications.  In order to qualify for this position, you must have experience listed below.


2.
IOR Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- architecture, engineering, building construction, or other fields related to the position.

OR

IOR Specialized Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience in the preparation or review of plans, specifications, or estimates of materials and costs for the construction, extension, alteration, or repair of buildings. Applicants should have knowledge of the residential construction field, and experience in the development of plans and specifications, and in negotiation work. This experience may have been obtained working as a contractor or as a draftsperson in an architectural engineering firm. However, any drafting experience must have provided an opportunity to acquire technical knowledge.

Appropriate experience includes working with diverse construction materials (brick, lumber, reinforced concrete, steel) and types of structures (housing, single-family dwellings and multi-family apartment units, and industrial and commercial structures). Applicants should be familiar with matters such as planning a subdivision, laying out traffic flow in a multi-family apartment structure, or working out specification problems in plans

Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education to be credited towards qualifications. Provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

 I have undergraduate and graduate education as required by the individual occupational requirement for the position.
 I have one (1) year specialized experience as required by the individual occupational requirement for the position.
 My experience and /or education is not described above.


TIME-IN-GRADE INSTRUCTIONS: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In-Grade requirement. Note: Not all eligibilities are required to meet Time-In-Grade. This does not apply to Non-Federal Applicants, or applicants applying for consideration under Non-Competitive Authorities (i.e.... "30% or more Disability", or "Persons with Disabilities - Schedule A", or under any other special hiring authority), if this does not apply to you, please select "C" for Not Applicable. If you are a current Federal employee, former Federal employee applying for reinstatement, or a current federal employee applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment you must meet time in grade. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). You must provide a copy of your most recent SF-50 that indicates proof of status, and shows Time in Grade (for example, you were a career or career-conditional employee) and identifies your position title, series, grade, step, salary, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit any SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time-in-grade.


3.
GS-12: I am a current Federal employee, do you have at least one (1) year (time-in-grade) at the GS-11 grade level? This does not apply to Non-Federal Applicants, Former-Federal applicants applying under VEOA or applicants applying for consideration under Non-Competitive Authorities (i.e....  "30% or more Disability", or "Persons with Disabilities" or under any other special hiring authority), if this does not apply to you, please select "C" for Not Applicable.
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS INSTRUCTIONS: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.

DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


4.
GS-12: To qualify at the grade level GS-12 applicants must have at least one (1) year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in federal service OR comparable experience not gained through federal service.  This comparable to federal service specialized experience is defined as:

Experience that demonstrates the ability to independently manage residential or commercial construction projects based off approved contracts, plans or blueprints,  and ability to handle construction change orders throughout construction projects.  Additionally, a history of providing outstanding customer service with examples of accomplishing project goals through difficult or stressful situations. 

Education: There is no educational substitution for the GS-12 grade level experience. 
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 I do not possess the specialized experience mentioned in "A," therefore, I am not qualified for this position at this grade level.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT INSTRUCTIONS: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙