Position Title
Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (SVRC)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-26-SEP-13025105-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Moreno Valley, CA
 B. San Diego, CA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (SVRC) with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open to current, permanent employees of the San Diego, CA VBA Regional Office and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible. For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the San Diego, CA VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent appointment SF-50 as defined in the Required Document section of this Job Announcement.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE: As a current Federal GS employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.


2.
To qualify for the GS-13 grade level, please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-12 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


BASIC REQUIREMENT FOR ALL GRADES: This series has Basic Requirements that must be met. Carefully read below and select the appropriate answer to the following question based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.


3.
Do you possess a master's degree in rehabilitation counseling, including an internship; OR a master's degree in counseling psychology or a related field, including at least 30 semester hours of coursework in such areas as foundations of rehabilitation counseling, human growth and development, counseling theories and techniques, vocational assessment, career development, job placement, case management, and medical/psycho-social aspects of disability. Total graduate study must have included or been supplemented by a supervised internship. OR For master's degree programs without a supervised internship/practicum, substitution is allowed for successful professional experience following completion of the master's degree. (Experience suitable for substitution must be one full year in direct delivery of vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs, other than those in correctional facilities. The experience or internship/practicum must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs).

NOTE: A copy of your master's transcript is required. If you do not submit a copy of your transcript, your application may not be processed.
 Yes, I have a master's degree in rehabilitation counseling, including an internship.
 Yes, I have a master's degree in counseling psychology or a related field, including at least 30 semester hours of course work in the subjects listed above
 Yes, I have a master’s degree. I have not completed an internship, but I have one year of post-degree work experience delivering vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs (other than those in correctional facilities).
 I do not have a degree or experience as listed above.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements above, to qualify at the GS-13 grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at least to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized Experience is documented experience that has provided comprehensive knowledge of Vocational Rehabilitation programs. Specifically, documented concepts, principles, and theories of testing and evaluation, rehabilitation, job development and job placement, and demonstrated comprehensive experience in ALL of the following:
The incumbent has experience working with groups. They are capable of planning and assigning work activities for subordinates, with final technical authority over the final work product.
The incumbent has experience in training and teaching. They must be comfortable presenting to both large and small groups, capable of explaining complex regulations and policy.
The incumbent is highly organized and capable of monitoring and managing multiple projects, tasks, and assignments.
The incumbent is capable of gathering and interpreting a wide range of data addressing service concerns, and recommends appropriate actions based on the data.
The incumbent must be familiar with all aspects of the Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment (VR&E) processes, including initial evaluations, case management, and employment services.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 My experience is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙