Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
343-26-GR-12981692-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Oakland, CA
 B. Boise, ID
 C. Seatac, WA
 D. Seattle, WA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
LOCAL COMMUTING AREA REQUIREMENT: This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees at Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office where the employee is currently assigned, and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.
Boise Regional Office
Oakland Regional Office
Seatac Regional Office
Seattle Regional Office


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.



REMINDER SF-50, NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION: If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.

Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee
An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade
Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
General Adjustment SF-50's do not provide the information to reflect time-in-grade requirement has been met and therefore cannot be the only SF-50.
If you are currently serving in a Hybrid Title 38 position, your SF-50's must reflect you have been in the position longer than one year.
 
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: If you are a current Federal employee and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks you must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have held in the Federal service. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.
For a GS-11 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09.


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 Neither A or B applies to me.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: You may qualify based on your experience and/or education as described below: 

GS-11 Level: One (1) year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-09). Specialized experience is defined as:
Experience developing and interpreting administrative policies and requirements and reviewing the work of other team members.
Experience assisting with any facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects; and analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs.
Experience with the renovation of existing office space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, and/or minor construction, etc. 
Experience administering government regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, and/or security standards which can be gained through such activities as conducting safety and/or security inspections, assisting or monitoring a safety and/or security program, and/or identifying and/or resolving safety and/or security deficiencies.
Experience analyzing use of space and facilities, safety and/or security inspections, and/or minor construction budgets, etc. and advising management accordingly.
Experience in property management, inventory of supplies and/or equipment, procurement of supplies and/or equipment, and/or vehicle management, etc.
Experience in administration and management of an identity card program, to include, cardstock inventory management, card issuance, administrative oversight of role-holders, and issuing cards, as necessary.

OR

Education:
3 years or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree is creditable for GS-11.
NOTE: Equivalent combinations of education and experience are also qualifying for grade levels for which both education and experience are acceptable.



3.
Do you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-11 position?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have 3 years or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree is creditable for GS-11
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙