Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13032039-HQ-AKP-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Merit Promotion

Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities: Current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status.

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (Tenure is located in box 24 and should reflect "1" or "2" AND Position Occupied is located in box 34 and should reflect "1").; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action- If you are a current or former federal employee, you must submit a SF-50 showing the highest grade level held in the position for which you are using to qualify. 
A pay adjustment, QSI or award SF-50 is not acceptable. 

Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-13 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-13 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I have one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the federal sector. Specialize Experience: Providing direct mission and administrative support to senior leadership by managing daily priorities, deliverables, and compliance with organizational procedures. Conducting organizational analyses and management studies to evaluate program effectiveness, identify operational problems, and recommend improvements.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙