Position Title
Equal Opportunity Investigator
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13016366-26-FRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.


1.
Are you a current employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
 

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service and has held a permanent (non-temporary) position in the competitive service at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Mobile, AL
 AD. Phoenix, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Fresno, CA
 AG. Los Angeles, CA
 AH. Oakland, CA
 AI. San Diego, CA
 AJ. San Francisco, CA
 AK. San Jose, CA
 AL. Denver, CO
 AM. Washington, DC
 AN. Miami, FL
 AO. Tampa, FL
 AP. Atlanta, GA
 AQ. Savannah, GA
 AR. Honolulu, HI
 AS. Chicago, IL
 AT. Indianapolis, IN
 AU. Kansas City, KS
 AV. Louisville, KY
 AW. New Orleans, LA
 AX. Baltimore, MD
 AY. Boston, MA
 AZ. Detroit, MI
 BA. Minneapolis, MN
 B. Jackson, MS
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Newark, NJ
 F. Albuquerque, NM
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. New York, NY
 I. Charlotte, NC
 J. Greensboro, NC
 K. Raleigh, NC
 L. Cincinnati, OH
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Oklahoma City, OK
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Pittsburgh, PA
 Q. San Juan, PR
 R. Greenville, SC
 S. Memphis, TN
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Dallas, TX
 V. El Paso, TX
 W. Houston, TX
 X. San Antonio, TX
 Y. Norfolk, VA
 Z. Richmond, VA
 AA. Seattle, WA
 AC. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-7 Minimum Qualifications: Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have successfully completed at least one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a degree program related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education that together meet the requirements for this position.
 Superior Academic Achievement - I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution, and I meet one of the following criteria: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described.


2.
GS-9 Minimum Qualifications: Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have successfully completed at least two full years of graduate level education (36 semester hours, 54 quarter hours or equivalent) OR master's degree OR LL.B. OR J.D. in a field of study directly related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙