Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12938062-26-KJ Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirement for this position. There are education requirements for this position. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: From the description below, please select the response that best reflects your level of education.
 I possess successful completion of a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in accounting, OR a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess a combination of education and experience of at least four years of experience in accounting, or equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. Your background must also include one of the following: (1) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not possess the above education and/or experience requirements.


Select the appropriate answer to the following question(s) based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If you qualify based on experience, please make sure your resume clearly indicates the nature of duties and responsibilities in each position, dates of employment (month/year), and the number of hours worked per week. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


2.
GS-7 GRADE REQUIREMENT: From the description below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education related to the GS-7 level.
 I possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-5 in Federal Service that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: Knowledge of VA programs and their governing statutes, regulations, and practices; Knowledge of accounting practices, concepts, principles, and methods; Knowledge of the organization’s business practices pertaining to administrative support or business accounting systems for payroll, purchases, maintenance, sales, and services; and Performing accounting assignments using accounting methods and techniques.
 I possess one year of graduate-level education, OR Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A). The S.A.A. provision is an educational achievement based on class standing, grade point average, or honor society membership. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess equivalent combinations of specialized experience and education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not possess the above education and/or experience requirements.


3.
GS-9 GRADE REQUIREMENT: From the description below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education related to the GS-9 level.
 I possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-7 in Federal Service that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: Comprehensive knowledge of accounting practices, policies, and functions including accrual, obligations, and cost methods; Thorough knowledge of the total accounting system and of well-established accounting principles, techniques and regulations; Performing a variety of routine and technical accounting practices including transaction listings, cost reports, financial statements, project fund balances, and work orders; Ability to make decisions regarding complex accounting transactions and reconciling reports and financial data; and Manage the activities of other support personnel and provide direction in solving non-routine transactions.
 I possess two years of progressively higher-level graduate education, OR a master’s degree, OR equivalent graduate degree. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)
 I possess equivalent combinations of specialized experience and education beyond one year of graduate-level education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not possess the above education and/or experience requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙