Position Title
Legal Assistant (Office Automation)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-HQ-13008285-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an active duty service member? You must submit a statement of discharge/certification of release or an official written document from the armed forces that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions no later than 120 days from the date the announcement closes. Enlisted Records Briefs and military information DO NOT qualify as official documentation. If the appropriate information is not submitted to confirm the discharge status, dates of service, expected character of service, etc, you will not be considered for this job opportunity under Veteran Preference procedures.  To gain access to your DD-214 online please visit http://www.archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Anchorage, AK
 K. Juneau, AK
 L. Phoenix, AZ
 M. Fayetteville, AR
 N. Fort Smith, AR
 O. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 P. Fort Pierce, FL
 Q. Miami, FL
 R. West Palm Beach, FL
 S. Atlanta, GA
 T. Cedar Rapids, IA
 U. Boston, MA
 V. Detroit, MI
 W. Oxford, MS
 X. Jefferson City, MO
 Y. Kansas City, MO
 Z. Springfield, MO
 AA. Newark, NJ
 AB. Albany, NY
 AC. Binghamton, NY
 AD. New York, NY
 AE. Plattsburgh, NY
 AF. Syracuse, NY
 AG. Allentown, PA
 AH. Philadelphia, PA
 AI. Pittsburgh, PA
 B. Hato Rey, PR
 C. Sherman, TX
 D. Tyler, TX
 E. Alexandria, VA
 F. Seattle, WA
 G. Tacoma, WA
 H. Charleston, WV
 I. Huntington, WV
 J. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


3.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


4.
This is not a remote position, you will be required to report to the duty location.
 I understand, I am willing to report to the duty location.
 I am not willing to report to the duty location.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your responses to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application.


For each of the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may only select one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you type at least 40 words per minute based on a five-minute sample with three or fewer errors? A typing test may be administered at a later time in the process.

 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for the Legal Assistant, GS-0986-05 position.
 I have at least one-year (52 Weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that includes reviewing documents with legal implications for accuracy and completeness (e.g., court documents, real estate documents, contracts, insurance or benefits claims, mortgage or loan applications, tax forms, or other types of legal documents).
 I have successfully completed four academic years of education above the high school level or I possess a bachelor's or higher degree.
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience described in A or post-high school education described in B, but I have a combination of specialized experience and post-high school education which fully meets the qualification requirement of the position. (Please note: Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. Refer to the Qualification section of the vacancy announcement for instructions on how to combine specialized experience and post-high school education.)
 I do not have the education or experience as described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Legal Assistant, GS-0986-06 position.
 I have at least one-year (52 Weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that includes (3) of the (4) duties: Reviewing legal documents such as complaints, motions, orders, answers, pleadings, subpoenas, or libels for completeness of factual information; Retrieving or assembling information for hearing and/or trial use; Researching a variety of legal sources to obtain and/or verify information; Using automated software to produce legal related reports, documents, correspondence or related materials.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the statements above and I do not qualify for this position.


4.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Legal Assistant, GS-0986-07 position.
 I have at least one-year (52 Weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that includes (3) out of the (4) duties: Providing trial support to attorneys by preparing complaints, motions, subpoenas, orders, or other hearing and/or trial documents accurately and in proper format; Verifying citations and statutory references contained in legal documents; Assisting with discovery, hearing or trial preparation by performing duties such as compiling trial notebooks, assembling jury instructions, or compiling witness and exhibit lists; Using software applications or legal and non-legal databases to produce legal related reports and documents, conduct factual research, develop tables of contents and indices to briefs, or prepare courtroom presentations.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the statements above and I do not qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙