Position Title
Actuary
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADPAC-26-12912043-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Apr 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 For the GS-7 level, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-5 grade level or equivalent to other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My specialized experience includes assisting in actuarial analyses and computations.analyses and computations.
 For the GS-7 level, I possess 1 year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement that include courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 For the GS-7 level, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 For the GS-09 level, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-7 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My specialized experience includes performing actuarial analyses and computations and preparing research and studies on calculation of actuarial present values.
 For the GS-09 level, I possess 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 For the GS-09 level, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in D and E above.
 I do not have the education or experience required for this position


2.
From the list below, select the response that most closely represents the education and/or experience that you fully possess to meet the basic qualifications for this position. The purpose of this question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 For the GS-07 level, Eligibility under the superior academic achievement provision and a bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 For the GS-07 level, One year of graduate education in the subject areas of actuarial science, mathematics, statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science; and a course of educational study as described in paragraph (A) above.
 For the GS-07 level, Combination of education and experience that includes both of the following requirements: one year of actuarial experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level; and completion of a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university equivalent to a course of study described in paragraph (A). This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 For the GS-07 level, Special Alternate Means of Qualifying: Successful completion of one (1) of the examinations offered by the Society of Actuaries (SOA), or the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS), or credit for one of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (JBEA) examinations, as evidenced by an official SOA or CAS transcript. Applicants must complete a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 For the GS-09 level, A master's degree or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree in actuarial science; mathematics, statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science; and a course of educational study as described in paragraph (A) above.
 For the GS-09 level, Combination of education and experience that includes both of the following requirements: one year of actuarial experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level; and a course of educational study as described in paragraph (A) above.
 For the GS-09 level, Special Alternate Means of Qualifying: Successful completion of two (2) of the examinations offered by the Society of Actuaries (SOA), or the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS), or credit for two of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (JBEA) examinations, as evidenced by an official SOA or CAS transcript. Applicants must complete a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 I do not possess the required education and experience listed above.


3.
From the list below, select the response that most closely represents the experience that you fully possess to meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 I have completed one examination from the Society of Actuaries (SOA) or the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) or I have received credit for one of the Joint Board for the Enrollment for Actuaries (JBEA) examinations. This accomplishment is detailed on my resume.
 I have completed two or more examinations from the Society of Actuaries (SOA) or the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) or I have received credit for two or more of the Joint Board for the Enrollment for Actuaries (JBEA) examinations. This accomplishment is detailed on my resume.
 I have not completed any examinations from the Society of Actuaries (SOA) or the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) nor have I received credit for one of the Joint Board for the Enrollment for Actuaries (JBEA) examinations.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position. C


4.
Military defined benefit pensions are generally based on which key elements?
 Years of service and a multiplier applied to the average of base pay.
 Years of service and total compensation including allowances.
 Employee contributions and investment returns.
 Social Security benefit levels.


5.
What is the primary purpose of an actuarial valuation for a military retirement system?

 To calculate the exact amount each service member will receive at retirement
 To estimate long term liabilities and required funding levels for the system
 To determine whether individual service members are eligible for benefits
 To audit past benefit payments for accuracy


6.
Which of the following best describes the role of actuarial cost estimates in evaluating proposed changes to military benefits?

 They quantify the financial impact of legislative or policy changes on long-term program costs.
 They determine whether a proposal is legally permissible.
 They identify administrative errors in benefit processing.
 They are used only for historical reporting.


7.
What is the purpose of a discount rate in an actuarial valuation?

 To convert future cash flows into today's dollars so costs can be compared.
 To calculate how much each person will receive in retirement.
 To determine the number of new hires needed.
 To set military pay raises each year.


8.
Why might military mortality differ from civilian mortality?

 Military members have identical health profiles to civilians
 Military members retire earlier
 Military populations may have different health, fitness, and risk exposure patterns
 Mortality assumptions do not vary by population


9.
Why do actuaries need assumptions about how long people will live?

 Because the length of time people receive benefits affects total program cost.
 Because mortality assumptions determine military promotion rates.
 Because mortality assumptions are only used for health insurance.
 Because everyone receives the same benefit regardless of lifespan.


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience using spreadsheets or actuarial software to support valuations?

 I build models, apply statistical techniques, and automate calculations.
 I use spreadsheets to perform standard calculations and organize data.
 I use spreadsheets only for basic data entry.
 I have no experience using spreadsheets or actuarial software.


11.
How familiar are you with R, Python, and/or other coding languages?

 I regularly use R, Python, or other languages to build models, automate processes, or analyze complex datasets.
 I have basic experience using R, Python, and/or other coding languages for data manipulation or simple analyses.
 I have not coded program using any coding languages, but I can understand the logic behind the coding.
 I have no experience using R, Python, and/or other coding languages.


12.
Which statement best describes your experience preparing actuarial or statistical reports?

 I independently prepare and update assigned sections of valuation reports, statistical summaries, and briefing materials.
 I can contribute to sections of reports prepared by others.
 I have reviewed actuarial reports but not contributed to them.
 I have no experience with actuarial or statistical reporting.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙