Position Title
SECURITY OFFICER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12999432-AF-26-034 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 SFS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 SFS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (O1 to O3)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Security Officer.
 I HAVE the education/experience and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines (Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism, Information Protection Security, Physical Security, Security Forces, Security Training, Security Unit Deployment Manager, and Special Security Office Security) and the applicable Security Series career level .
 I DO NOT HAVE the education/experience and validated understanding listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Security Officer.
 I HAVE at least 36 months experience in developing, implementing, and managing a Wing’s law enforcement, physical security, wing security, and Anti-Terrorism and Force Protection programs, 2) knowledge and premier technical authority on the development, implementation, and management of law enforcement, physical security, installation security, and anti-terrorism programs, policies, procedures, and equipment, 3) experience in developing, implementing, executing, and managing guidance for applying security policy, procedures, techniques, equipment, and methods, 4) technical knowledge of security classification methods, concepts, and eligibility for access to classified or sensitive information, 5) experience in a Wing’s Security Programs, 6) experience in the Defense Force Program, 7) experience in managing and supervising the administrative and technical aspects of the Security Forces Squadron, 8) experience in reviewing and negotiating host/tenant agreements, memoranda of understanding, joint use and inter-service agreements, and leases, with military and civil agencies, and 9) experience in managing resources, funding, and budget requirements that support Security Forces programs and services.
 I HAVE education (from an accredited university) to meet the overall specialized experience.
 I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙