Position Title
Range Technician(Weeds)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
CATEMP-26-12883823-AA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Cedarville, CA
 B. Susanville, CA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Which of the following best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-4 level for this position?
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-03 or equivalent level that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of a Range Technician which is directly related to the work as described in the vacancy announcement. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience.
 I have successfully completed a 2 years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in any combination of courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. No more than 6 semester hours in mathematics is creditable.
 I have a combination of education and experience described above.
 I do not have the experience or education described above


2.
Which of the following best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-5 level for this position?
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-04 or equivalent level that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of a Range Technician which is directly related to the work as described in the vacancy announcement. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience.
 I have successfully completed a four year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree (a) with major study in forestry, range management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position, or (b) that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. No more than 6 semester hours in mathematics is creditable.
 I have a combination of education and experience described above
 I do not have the experience or education described above


3.
Which of the following best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-6 level for this position?
 .I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-04 or equivalent level that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of a Range Technician which is directly related to the work as described in the vacancy announcement. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience.
 I have one full year of graduate level education directly related to the work of a Range Technician such as forestry, range management, agriculture, or a subject matter field directly released to the position. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts or proof of experience.
 I possess a combination of qualifying education and specialized experience. I will submit a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


4.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙