Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
319-26-FGG-13052113(BU) Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Local Commuting Area
1.
1. Do you currently reside within the local commuting area of the Columbia Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina?
 Yes
 No


2.
2. If no, do you intend to relocate to the local commuting area of the Columbia Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina, if selected for the position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Program Specialist with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), Columbia Regional Benefit Office. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience and/or education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.

This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent Columbia, SC Veterans Benefit Affairs (VBA) Regional Office employees.

NOTE: You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility!


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.

Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information. Please select the appropriate response below for each grade level.


1.
GS-11: At this grade, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher
 No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level (or above).


2.
GS-12: At this grade, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher
 No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 level (or above).


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience/education.
Note: A resume no longer than two - pages must be submitted with your application materials. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.


3.
GS-11: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-11 Program Specialist (Quality Review and Training) position.

NOTE: Specialized experience is defined as experience applying laws and regulations applicable to the Fiduciary Program and experience performing training in investigation, adjudication, and/or authorization of claims for benefits or compensation. Experience that demonstrates competence in adjudicating and authorizing veterans' claims.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related to the competencies.
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-11 level. Equivalent combinations of (1) specialized experience and (2) PH.D graduate education. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (The applicant's first 2 years of graduate study are not qualifying for GS-11.)
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


4.
GS-12: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-12 Program Specialist (Quality Review and Training) position.

NOTE: Specialized experience must demonstrate: At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service defined as work that involves functioning in either a capacity performing training, analyst or information systems duties of a benefits claims process. The experience should be substantive and relevant and may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector. Examples of specialized experience may include but are not limited to the following: Conducting focused evaluations and reviews to determine quality and accuracy; Providing advisory services to management via preparation and presentation of quality trend information; Developing training strategies and materials to address deficiencies and/or conducting training activities; Analyzing performance deficiencies and quality trends to identify knowledge/skill gaps; Providing quality-review services, feedback, and guidance to staff in order to correct unsatisfactory performance.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level as described above.
 My experience is not reflected above therefore I do not meet the requirements and will not be considered.


Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


5.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙