Position Title
Administrative Support Assistant (OA) - Field Unit Local Hire Authority (FUL)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-PISP-26-13033610-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 75 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location: Pipe Spring National Monument at 406 Pipe Spring Rd, Fredonia, AZ 86022

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Administrative Support Assistant (OA) GS-0303-5/6 position with the National Park Service, Pipe Spring National Monument. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your responses. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answers you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified, or you may be placed in a lower quality category.


Specialized Experience


1.
From the responses below, select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for an Administrative Support Assistant (OA), GS-0303-05 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that provided the particular knowledge, skill, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Examples of specialized experience include performing administrative functions (e.g., payroll, personnel, travel, and/or correspondence), using office procedures and equipment, organizing and analyzing information, typing correspondence, memos, reports, and forms from rough drafts, and notes, answering telephone calls, filing and meeting and dealing effectively with others. You must include hours per week worked.
 I have successful completion of at least four years of education above high school. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school. You must include transcripts
 I have successful completion of a combination of education and experience as described above. NOTE: A combination of education and specialized experience as described above that, when combined, meets 100 percent of the qualification requirement. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours of undergraduate education is creditable toward the specialized experience requirement. Applicants must receive appropriate credit for the amount of qualifying education beyond the 60-semester-hour threshold and qualifying specialized experience, with the percentages combined to equal at least 100 percent. Transcripts must be submitted to receive credit for education.
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


2.
From the responses below, select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for an Administrative Support Assistant (OA), GS-0303-06 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: answering questions/providing guidance to employees regarding payroll issues; coordinating human resource activity; providing guidance to supervisors and management on personnel issues; using automated systems; assisting staff with Office of Workers Compensation issues; knowledge and application of regulatory requirements; verify time and leave balances; providing program and administrative support; and maintaining files. You must include hours per week worked.
 I do not meet or exceed the above statements.


3.
The duties of this position require the applicant to have the ability to type at least 40 words per minute. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your typing ability. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible.
 I currently type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5 minute typing sample with three or fewer errors. I will provide documentation, such a typing test certificate or notation of words typed per minute in my resume, of this skill with my application package.
 No, I do not currently type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5 minute test.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙