Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (Imaging)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13044657-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation.


The following are the requirements for appointment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all BESS positions in the GS-1601 series. The work requires the application of engineering and mechanical concepts and methodology to provide life-cycle management and technical support of diagnostic, therapeutic devices, monitoring, and other equipment applicable in the practice of medicine, and to improve health service delivery systems for communities and within individual VA facilities (medical centers, outpatient clinics, domiciliaries). BESSs work requires, in addition to knowledge and skill in engineering disciplines, a background in anatomy and physiology, and a practical facility in specialized subject matter areas such as computer applications, electronics, or mathematics.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Proficiency - In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION/CERTIFICATION: To meet the basic requirements for this occupation, you must have one of the below listed education, experience, certifications. Your selection must be supported with appropriate documentation, i.e. copy of transcripts, copy of listed certifications, experience list on resume in detail.

Please select your proper response.

Note: Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current health care industry and required using knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) directly applicable to the assignment and associated within the scope of the BESS profession. Experience is only creditable if it was acquired in the health care industry and is either directly related to the position to be filled or a related field (for example, Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer, or Information Technology (IT) Specialist). Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment as a BESS.
 Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field
 Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience
 Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program
 Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience
 Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship
 Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience
 Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM).
 I do not possess any of the above basic qualifications for this position.


In addition to the basic requirements listed above, you must meet the following grade qualifications for the GS-12 Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (Imaging). For all assignments above the full-performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. The incumbent may be responsible for the complete systems management of computerized/networked imaging systems and databases and their inter-connectivity with PACS, related modalities and the Electronic Medical Record (EMR). Utilizes specialized diagnostic software, specialized quality assurance tools and measuring equipment, detailed technical literature, and standard electronic and computer test equipment. Ensures required software updates and backups are completed to maintain continued functionality of equipment, patient safety, and data integrity. The incumbent assists in designing and implementing best approaches to recovery of critical computerized databases and operating systems. The incumbent should be considered a technical expert on one or more advanced imaging system and may provide input to the VISN High-Cost/High-Tech Committee, may serve as a VISN or national technical resource as needed. Advises clinicians and management regarding the acquisition, integration, and application of medical imaging technologies. Participates in the acquisition, technical requirements and evaluations, project planning and deployment of medical imaging systems. May serve as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR) for purchase of medical equipment, maintenance/repair contracts, and facility projects. He/she is responsible for coordinating with the facility stakeholders including but not limited to medical staff, clinical personnel, Biomedical Engineering, OI&T, service managers, Patient Safety, senior salespeople and equipment manufacturers on procurement related or technical issues.


3.

GS-12 Experience: You must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.


Note: Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current health care industry and required using knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) directly applicable to the assignment and associated within the scope of the BESS profession. Experience is only creditable if it was acquired in the health care industry and is either directly related to the position to be filled or a related field (for example, Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer, or Information Technology (IT) Specialist). Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment as a BESS.

 I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. This experience if documented in detail on my resume.
 I DO NOT have at lease one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. I understand I will NOT be considered for this GS-12 BESS (Imagining) position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-12 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of imaging principles including techniques, technologies, radiological practices, and procedures.
Knowledge of HL7 and DICOM standards.
Skill in applying standards for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Nuclear Radiation Commission (NRC), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the American College of Radiology (ACR).
Ability to resolve complex failures on imaging equipment and clinical systems.
Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot imaging equipment and clinical system interfaces.

Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for this position ?
 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙