Position Title
Supply Technician
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-EHT-FIRENC3-FS5372-56DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Grand Rapids, MN
 B. Hurley, NM


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Responses are optional, but each essay response field requires text to be entered to allow you to submit your application. Type N/A if you choose not to respond to any of the next four essay questions.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education needed to qualify for this position.


For each of the following questions, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application, as well as information provided by your references. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience and/or education for the Supply Technician position at the GS-06 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 GS-05: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: Conducting data entry and document processing for a variety of program areas within an incident support cache; and/or Maintaining accounts and records for material handling functions; and/or Using a variety of automation software to edit and produce an assortment of materials; and/or Responding to customer inquiries and collaborating with internal and external stakeholders to provide accurate information.
 I have a bachelor's degree or 4 years of successfully completed education above high school leading to a bachelor's degree. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I have an appropriate combination of successfully completed post-high school education and experience.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


2.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience and/or education for the Supply Technician position at the GS-06 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as two or more of the following: Conducting data entry and document processing for a variety of program areas within an incident support cache; and/or Maintaining accounts and records for material handling functions in compliance with all applicable policies, regulations, and procedures; and/or Investigating and reconciling routine and recurring discrepancies for supply transactions within an automated data system, such as overages, shortages, receipt, shipment, and/or stock control; and/or Preparing and receiving purchase orders and submitting for final approval in accordance with unit funding and organizational policies.
 I have one full year (18 semester hours) of successfully completed graduate level education in coursework directly related to the position. For example, Logistics Management, Purchasing and Supply Chain Management. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I have an appropriate combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


3.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, degree, and/or completion of trade or vocational school program.
 I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of high school or college.
 I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 I am (was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g., M.A. or Ph.D.).
 I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 I have received a certificate or other indicator of successful completion of a trade or vocational school program that is directly related to the work of this position.
 None of the above.


For the following questions, select the option from the list below that best reflects the appropriate description associated with the position. Please select only one response for each question.


4.

Which option best describes a primary responsibility of this position?

 

 Designing new software systems for supply chain automation.
 Investigating and correcting discrepancies in automated supply transactions, including shipping, receiving, returns, and inventory records.
 Receiving and verifying incoming documents without performing any corrections.
 Entering data into automated systems without investigating discrepancies.
 Preparing purchase orders but not handling inventory records.


5.

Which task most accurately reflects the document control duties of this role?

 

 

 Receiving, processing, and reconciling supply documents while identifying errors and taking corrective action according to established procedures.
 Filing documents without verifying accuracy.
 Updating “on order” records but not researching shortages or overages.
 Processing shipments but not reviewing supporting documentation.
 Approving all purchases independently without obtaining required signatures.


6.

Which option best describes the duties typically performed in the entry level grade of this role?

 

 

 Evaluates supply management codes and distribution information.
 Processes orders for emergency incidents and prepares records and accounts for material handling functions.
 Conducts data entry, processes orders and monitors and maintains program information using the inventory managements system.
 Provides detailed administrative assistance and support for supplies and equipment at a National Interagency Support Cache; maintains supplies equipment and document processing for all phases of Cache activities; performs document control work involved in supply transactions; and conducts data entry and processing for a variety of program areas.
 Implements program operations and supervises a wide range of positions within the Cache system.


7.

Which of the following best represents a major responsibility of this position related to inventory and supply management?

 

 

 Implements maintenance programs and servicing fire equipment without utilizing any databases or digital repositories.
 Solely conducting field inspections of wildfire suppression equipment at incident sites.
 Overseeing the financial audits of all agency procurement offices.
 Maintaining and correcting automated inventory records to ensure accurate tracking of supplies, equipment, and material handling transactions to include database utilization.
 Managing federal hiring actions for all regional cache facilities.



For each task in the following group, please use the text box to provide a narrative accomplishment response describing a specific instance from your training and/or experience. In your response, please follow these important guidelines as you write your accomplishment:

Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved...
Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.

Provide the name and a telephone number, email address, or other method of contacting someone who can verify this information. 



8.

Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in investigating automated supply transaction discrepancies related to shipping, receiving, returns, refurbishment, and/or kitting.

 

 



9.

Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in updating automated inventory systems with accurate information.

 

 



10.

Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in purchasing a wide range of supplies, services, materials, and equipment using a variety of recognized service agreements or contracts.

 

 



Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take an opportunity to review your responses for their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.

Have you read the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement and understand that failure to submit all required, legible documents prior to the closing date of the announcement may result in loss of consideration?

 

 

 Yes
 No


12.

Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 

 

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙