Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Cardiac Catheterization)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12925111-26-FLB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Citizenship: Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g this part).

Are you a U.S. citizen?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency:  Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f)

 Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?


 Yes
 No


3.
GS-8 Grade Determination:

At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to scrub, circulate, and monitor advanced procedures (including electrophysiological) to include rotoblation, intravascular ultrasound RADI or wave-wire, Angio jet, filter wires, myocardial biopsies.
EPS, permanent pacemaker insertions, AICD insertions, and biventricular pacemaker insertions.
Set up, calibrate, operate, and troubleshoot equipment.
Recognize and distinguish normal from abnormal, artifact from abnormality, and forewarn the physician of an impending life-threatening situation. Prepare and analyze quality control of test results.
 Mentor and train lower-grade technicians, nurses, nursing students, and cardiopulmonary technology students on cardiac catheterization laboratory procedures and assist the supervisor/manager with quality control and performance improvement activities.
 Assist lab clinical staff with patient care, as needed, before and after invasive procedures, including patient preparation, pre-procedure is assisted with as needed, and assigned, procedure/supply set up is consistently and appropriately performed, procedure equipment is prepared and calibrated as needed and post procedure care is assisted with including but no limited to monitoring of patient vital signs, sheath removal and patient transportation.
 Participates in supporting lab operations to include receiving and stocking supplies appropriately, supplies are assessed, reordered, and par levels are consistently maintained, and holding /receiving recovery areas are consistently organized, safe, and well stocked.
Develops ongoing technical proficiency in a clinic support role to include assistance to the physician, which is provided throughout the procedure within the scope of the technician's defined skills/competency, including scrubbing into the procedure and operating imaging equipment with appropriate direct oversight, sterile technique is maintained, and procedure supply needs/product requirements are met as needed.
 Other duties as assigned to include participation in the training of students, residents, and fellows are provided as appropriate, including acting as a preceptor/mentor for new and developing lab staff, accuracy and quality are maintained for activities, specific support functions are handled in accordance with departmental policies and procedures.
Knowledge of cardiac anatomy, physiology, and basic electrocardiography.
Knowledge of sterile techniques, catheterization laboratory supplies, and equipment used in the procedures.
Ability to circulate, assist, monitor, and document hemodynamics and electrocardiograms during the procedure.
Advanced Knowledge of equipment, medications, and supplies used in the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory and the ability to set up, calibrate, operate, and troubleshoot their equipment.
Knowledge and understanding of wave forms from the great vessels and all chambers of the heart, including the ability to recognize and distinguish normal from abnormal, artifact from abnormality, and forewarn the physician of an impending life-threatening situation.
Knowledge of quality control and performance improvement indicators for the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory and ability to prepare and analyze quality control of test results.
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙