Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator Supervisor
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFS-26-12977639-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Condition of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


5.
I have a Class A Commercial Driver's License (CDL).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineer Equipment Operator Supervisor position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineer Equipment Operator Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks and duties of an engineer equipment operator supervisor which includes determines how many assignments can be done concurrently, which ones must be delayed, and the number and types of employees needed considering skills, personnel, materials and equipment available and required.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of engineer equipment operator supervisor tasks and duties which include independently determining the nature of the trouble, repair required, and the methods, materials, and procedures necessary to accomplish the work. I am skilled in troubleshooting, maintaining repairs and/or modifying a variety of complex departmental equipment used. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common engineer equipment operator supervisor tasks including determines equipment, supplies, and maintenance required. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple work of an engineer equipment operator supervisor tasks includes determines equipment, supplies, and maintenance required.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙