Position Title
Equal Employment Opportunity Specialist
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
MS-26-006-JLM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years?
 Yes, I am a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years.
 No, I am not a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years


2.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


3.
Do you possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-13) in the Federal Service? This experience may have been gained in the federal government, a state or local government, a non-profit organization, the private sector, or as a volunteer; however, your resume must clearly describe at least one year of specialized experience. Specialized Experience for this position includes: 1) Demonstrated experience working with anti-discrimination laws applicable to the federal sector workplace, EEOC regulations/directives/guidance, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations; and federal policies, procedures and practices governing federal civil rights programs, affirmative employment, alternative dispute resolution, and the EEO requirements in the discrimination complaint process outlined in 29 C.F.R. Part 1614; AND 2) Working collaboratively with personnel across a federal agency's workforce, from different levels in the organization, to advance EEO program goals; AND 3) Supporting or guiding projects and efforts regarding  special emphasis events or projects; AND 4) Demonstrated experience serving as an EEO Counselor in the pre-complaint counseling stage outlined in 29 C.F.R. Part 1614.
 Yes, I meet the specialized experience as described above.
 No, I do not meet the specialized experience as described above.


4.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application and questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙