Position Title
Field Unit Local (FUL) Masonry Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PECO-26-13066518-FUL-AV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 95 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): 1 Peach Drive, Pecos, NM 87552

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


2.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the WG-3603-07, Masonry Worker position located at Pecos National Historical Park. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
From the descriptions below select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Masonry Worker, WG-07 position. You must show that you meet the experience described below. Read all responses before making your selection. Mark only one response. If you select more than one response or leave the question blank you will be rated ineligible. Any skill that you indicate you have experience with in the following occupational questionnaire must be specifically documented in your resume or application.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Masonry Worker tasks. I am skilled in maintenance, repair, construction and rebuilding of brick, block, stone surfaces and structures such as partitions, walls, walkways, foundations, etc. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools, and measuring devices of the masonry and carpentry trades to perform a variety of tasks in performing maintenance of buildings and facilities. I am skilled in preparing and applying mortar to obtain even distribution and thickness between courses, and that courses are accurately laid. I am also skilled in the operation and repair of a variety of vehicles or heavy equipment including tractors, backhoe, and all-terrain vehicles and attachments. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Masonry Worker tasks I am skilled in maintenance, repair, construction and rebuilding of brick, block, stone surfaces and structures such as partitions, walls, walkways, foundations, etc. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools, and measuring devices of the masonry and carpentry trades to perform a variety of tasks in performing maintenance of buildings and facilities. I am skilled in preparing and applying mortar to obtain even distribution and thickness between courses, and that courses are accurately laid. I am also skilled in the operation and maintenance of a variety of vehicles or heavy equipment including tractors, backhoe, and all-terrain vehicles and attachments. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Masonry Worker tasks. I can maintain, repair, construct and rebuild brick, block, stone surfaces and structures such as partitions, walls, walkways, foundations, etc. I use and operate common hand and power tools, and measuring devices of the masonry and carpentry trades to perform a variety of tasks in performing maintenance of buildings and facilities. I can prepare and apply mortar to obtain even distribution and thickness between courses and lay accurate courses. I can operate and maintain a variety of vehicles or heavy equipment including tractors, backhoe, and all-terrain vehicles and attachments. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I do not have on-the-job training or the abilities described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙