Position Title
Health and Wellness Coach
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12911646-26-WW Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Health and Wellness Coach candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7403
(f). Are you proficient in spoke and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education/Experience: Please choose ONE statement below that best describes your fulfillment of the basic requirements.

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in behavioral or social science or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I possess a combination of education and experience that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I possess four years of appropriate experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not possess the experience and/or education as described above.


3.
Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.

Name of Academic Institution
Degree Earned
City and State
Month and Year conferred

If you are using experience to qualify, simply note "Not Applicable".



4.
Certification: Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted certification through the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC)?

Note: Exception for Non-Certified Health and Wellness Coaches.
(a) Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification, may be given a temporary appointment as Health and Wellness Coach under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).
(b) Non-certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified Health and Wellness Coach at or above the full performance level or other designated occupation with the appropriate training and expertise.
(c) Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted until certification is obtained.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-certified Health and Wellness Coaches may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

 Yes, I hold a full, current, and unrestricted certification through the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC) and will provide a copy with my application.
 No, but I meet the exception and understand that if selected, I can and will only be given a temporary appointment (not to be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment) as an entry level (GS-07) Health and Wellness Coach under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2), will only be able to provide care under the supervision of a certified Health and Wellness Coach at or above the full performance level or other designated occupation with the appropriate training and expertise, and will not be eligible for promotion until certification is obtained.
 No, but I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 None of the above.


5.
Certification Information: Provide the following information regarding your certification:
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date

If you are not currently licensed, simply note "Not Applicable".



Grade Requirements: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for appointments at grade levels specified.


6.
GS-07 (Entry Level): I have fulfilled the basic requirements through experience and/or education to be qualified at the entry level for this position;
AND
I can demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
(a) Knowledge of health and wellness coaching processes and techniques.
(b) Ability to promote positive lifestyle choices.
(c) Ability to effectively communicate in writing through a variety of modalities.
(d) Ability to effectively communicate verbally/non-verbally.

 Yes, I meet the basic requirements for the position, and I can demonstrate the KSAs listed above. I understand that the KSAs must be demonstrated on my resume.
 No, I do not qualify and will not be considered for this position.


7.
GS-09: In addition to the basic requirements, I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 which includes but is not limited to knowledge of health and wellness coaching processes and techniques; facilitating development of personalized health plans (including person-centered customized goals, action steps and interventions developed by the individual) focused on behavioral interventions based on current scientific knowledge and research; promoting positive lifestyle choices (habits and behaviors); communicating in writing through a variety of modalities; effectively communicating verbally/non-verbally; conducting interventions using one-on-one, couple or group modalities in outpatient and inpatient settings using multiple formats (face-to-face, telephone, virtual, etc.);
AND
I can demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
(a) Knowledge of current research literature related to health and wellness, including behaviors that promote a healthy lifestyle and well-being.
(b) Skill in using health and wellness coaching techniques to promote positive behavior change using one-on-one, couple or group modalities.
(c) Skill in exercising effective interpersonal communication techniques to develop and maintain strong interpersonal relationships.
(d) Ability to assist the client in developing a comprehensive personalized health plan based on a patient's action-oriented goals.
(e) Ability to identify resources internal and external to the organization that are necessary for achieving patient overall health and well-being goals.
(f) Ability to use information technology (IT) equipment and various/emerging technologies to carry out work responsibilities.
(g) Ability to document patient information using appropriate systems.

 Yes, I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade, and I can demonstrate the KSAs listed above. I understand that the KSAs must be demonstrated on my resume.
 No, I do not meet the specialized experience requirement for GS-09.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙