Position Title
Bartender
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13057646 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How many years of experience do you have in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages?
 Two plus years of documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages
 One to Two years of documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages
 Six months to One year of documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages
 Less than six months or no documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages


2.
This position is subject to the possibility of working on weekends and holidays as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours.

 Yes, I am available to work the required shifts listed above.
 Yes, I am able to work some of the required shifts listed above
 No, I am not available to work the required shifts listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Are you 21 years of age or older?
 Yes
 No


4.
What best describes your knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination?
 I have extensive knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 2 or more years of experience in the food service industry).
 I have a working knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 1 - 2 years working experience in the food service industry)
 I have little knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. less than 1 year of experience in the food service industry.)
 I have no knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. no work experience in the food service industry).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙