Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician - Diagnostic Ultrasound
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12825278-26-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 11, 2025 to Dec 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Medical Instrument Technician - Diagnostic Ultrasound vacancy with the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.

Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS:

The following are the basic requirements for appointment as a Medical Instrument Technician - Diagnostic Ultrasound/Breast Imaging in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship:

All applicants are required to be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Physical Requirements:

The incumbent will be required to do the following:

A. Position requires long periods of standing and walking, some bending, lifting, and carrying of moderately heavy items.
B. Requires considerable effort and working in awkward positions.
C. Ability to reach above shoulder required.
D. Both hands and use of fingers required.
E. Must be able to lift, carry and move heavy equipment/patients routinely


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency:

Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Medical Instrument Technician (Diagnostic Ultrasound/Breast Imaging) - GS-9.

In addition to the core competencies defined at the GS-8 full performance level, positions at this grade may be lead, supervisory, or non-supervisory with specialized advanced knowledge and assignments.

Experience and KSA's:
At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. This would be specialized experience which demonstrates possession of the knowledge required in order to provide all aspects of diagnostic ultrasonography services. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

GS-08 Level Core competencies at the full performance level:
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
1. Ability to perform diagnostic ultrasound examination on multiple areas of the body, including, but not limited to, the abdomen, pelvis, transvaginal, chest, small parts, thyroid, breast, and scrotum.
2. Ability to perform vascular studies such as vertebral, renal artery, aortic aneurysm, portal- systemic shunts, etc.
3. Ability to assist radiologists with biopsy procedures determining the location, depth, and required needle angle for the lesion to be sampled.
4. Ability to assist in surgical procedures and fluid aspirations.

GS-09 Level Core competencies at the full performance level:
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
KSAs 1, 2, and 3 are appropriate for all positions at this level. KSAs 4 and 5 are to be used in accordance with their appropriateness for the specific assignment:
1. Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols that pertain to diagnostic ultrasonography.
*2. Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
3. Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.
*4. Ability to manage and supervise employees.
*5. Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.

Do you have 1 year of experience and KSA's?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙