Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Sailing Instructor)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12827330 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Saturday, November 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to the Applicant Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review/consider your responses to ensure their accuracy and select a statement below.


1.
Are you willing and able to work an irregular schedule which may require weekend and holiday hours?
 Yes
 No


2.
Candidates for this position must be 18 years of age or older. Please select a statement below.
 I am currently 18 years of age or older.
 I am not yet 18 years old and cannot be considered for this position, or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
Have you uploaded current (i.e. not expired) First Aid and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) certificates with your resume, or are you willing to obtain such certifications within 30 days of hire?
 Yes, I have uploaded my current certifications along with my resume.
 Yes, I am willing to obtain such certifications with in 30 days of hire.
 No.


4.
What level of proficiency with sailing/boating instruction have you documented on your resume? For any certification claimed, you must upload a copy of your certificate in order for it to be considered.
 I have 5 or more years of experience instructing and evaluating others on sailing/boating skills.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience instructing and evaluating others on sailing/boating skills.
 I have 2 or more years of experience instructing and evaluating others on sailing/boating skills.
 I have a current U.S. Sailing instructor certification. Documentation required.
 I have volunteer or limited professional experience.


5.
How much experience working in a sailing facility or program have you documented on your resume?
 5 years or more experience
 3 to 5 years experience
 1-3 years experience
 Less than 1 year experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙