Position Title
Sign Language Interpreter
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12937698P-TSN-1040-11 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7462) 855 M St, Fresno, CA
 B. (KY3005) 300 Madison Ave, Covington, KY
 C. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 D. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 E. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
Individual Occupational Requirements
EducationUndergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- the appropriate foreign language from an English-speaking college or university, English from a college or university in the other country, or translating or interpreting where English and the foreign language were prerequisites.
OR Experience in translating, interpreting, or other work requiring the use of English and the other language; or a combination of work (that required English and the other language) and training at the Defense Language Institute, Foreign Service Institute, or comparable training.
The following are examples of work in the required language that may have provided the required abilities: translator; interpreter; librarian or information specialist required to make abstracts, screen, index, and scan material; intelligence; writer or editor; international organizational work, such as the Peace Corps, World Bank, United Nations, business, or other organizations; or professor, teacher, or instructor work at the high school or college level that required use of the foreign language.

Do you meet one of the requirements listed above?

 Yes
 No


2.
Language requirement: This is a bilingual position. Applicants will be required to demonstrate proficiency in Sign Language and English. You must be able to speak, read, and write English and be able to interpret and transliterate American Sign Language (ASL), Manually Coded English (MCE) and Contact Variety Sign (CVS) to English, and from English to the aforementioned sign languages to be considered proficient. You may be assessed at some point in the hiring process to determine if you possess the required level of proficiency. If you are unable to demonstrate proficiency, you will not be qualified for this position.

Are you able to interpret/transliterate American Sign Language (ASL), Manually Coded English (MCE) and Contact Variety Sign (CVS) to English, and from English to the aforementioned sign languages?
 Yes
 No


3.
Specialized Experience GS-11: In addition to the basic requirement outlined above, you must meet one of the specific grade requirements for GS-11. You must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must be sufficient to demonstrate:
English, American Sign Language (ASL), Contact Variety Sign (CVS) and Manually Coded English (MCE) to perform Sign-to-English and English-to-Sign interpretation;
Using interpreting processes to determine the most effective means of communication for each deaf/hard of hearing employee;
Assisting in the development of training curriculum and utilizing current methods and materials in the instruction of sign language courses;
Utilizing telecommunication devices, assistive listening devices and other related technology for deaf/hard of hearing employees;
Dealing with the Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf (RID) Code of Ethics in order to maintain ethical standards for professional interpreters;
Utilizing resources and procedures for contracting sign language interpreter services; and effective written and oral communication skills. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Interpreting for deaf or hard-of-hearing individuals in meetings or training; Coordinating schedules for contract interpreters by arranging, and tracking hours and allocated funds; Assisting with the development and implementation of training for sign language instruction for employees; and Identifying barriers and resolving communication problems between supervisors and deaf/hard-of-hearing employeess
OR EDUCATION: A course of study that includes 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree 
OR Ph.D. 
OR equivalent doctoral degree in Sign Language Interpreting or a related field of study. 
OR LL.M., if related
OR An equivalent amount of combined education and experience as described in paragraphs above.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree in Sign Language Interpreting or a related field of study.
 I have a related LL.M.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have at least 1 year of combined graduate level education and qualifying experience as defined above.
 None of the above


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙