Position Title
Occupational Therapist-HUD-VASH/HJCR
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12977703-26-MD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Occupational Therapist, GS-0631-00, position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency
Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f). 

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Driving Requirement 
This position requires driving a government vehicle and /or transporting veterans. A current Valid Driver's License is required for this position.  Note:  We cannot accept photographs therefore please do not submit a copy of your driver's license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state issued Driver's License?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder- Do not include a copy of your license, if referred for interview it may be required at that time. 

Name on License:
Issuing state:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


3.
 Education and/or Experience
The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
OR
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
OR
Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
OR
Foreign Graduates: Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license.  
OR
Grandfathering Provision:  All persons employed in VHA [in this occupational series or in  another occupational series that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard, December 13, 2019, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of this occupation.  Employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
They may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the full performance level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
If an OT who was retained under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee will lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation. 
OTs initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
OTs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Which of the following best describes how you meet the Education and/or Experience requirement?
 I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field
 I have a Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I am a Foreign Graduate and have a current, full, active and unrestricted license.
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision.
 I DO NOT meet the Education and/or Experience listed above.


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your degree(s). 

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree & Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


4.
Certification
Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT. 
OR
Exceptions for the Graduate Occupational Therapist.
OT graduates from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state licensure, may be appointed, pending certification and/or licensure, as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to ­exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c).
Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, the OT must be certified and licensed. 
A graduate OT may provide care only under the direct supervision of a licensed OT who meets all state regulatory requirements.
Temporary graduate OT appointments may not be extended beyond two years,  or converted to a new temporary appointment.  
OR 
Grandfathering Provision
All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or in  another occupational series that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard, December 13, 2019, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of this occupation. 

Which of the following best describes how you meet the Certification requirement?
 I possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT
 I meet the Exception
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision
 I DO NOT meet the Certification requirement listed above


4a.
Please provide your certification information. 

Name on Certification:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete certification number:
Valid/Expiration date:


5.
State Licensure
Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. 
OR
Exceptions for the Graduate Occupational Therapist.
OT graduates from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state licensure, may be appointed, pending certification and/or licensure, as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to ­exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c).
Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, the OT must be certified and licensed. 
A graduate OT may provide care only under the direct supervision of a licensed OT who meets all state regulatory requirements.
Temporary graduate OT appointments may not be extended beyond two years,  or converted to a new temporary appointment.
OR
Grandfathering Provision
All [persons] employed in VHA [in this occupational series or in  another occupational series that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard, December 13, 2019, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of this occupation. 

Which of the following best describes how you meet the Licensure requirement?
 I possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 I meet the Exception.
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision
 I DO NOT met the State Licensure Requirement listed above


5a.
Please provide your license information.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


GRADE REQUIREMENTS 


6.
Occupational Therapist, GS-11
 Education, Experience, or Licensure.
(a) Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled;
OR
 (b) Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field;
OR 
(c) Doctorate in occupational therapy

Please select the appropriate answer  based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade leveL
 I have three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field
 I have a Doctorate in Occupational therapy
 I don't have any of the Education or Experience listed above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.

Occupational Therapist GS-11
 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). 
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
(b) Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
(c) Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
(d) Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
(e) Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
(f) Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.   
(g) Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice. 

Does your resume demonstrate that you meet the KSA's through your experience?
 Yes
 No


8.
Occupational Therapist, GS-12
Education, Experience, and Licensure.  
Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

Do you have the experience equivalent to one year at the GS-11 grade level? 
 Yes
 No


9.
Occupational Therapist, GS-12
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's)
 In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice. Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits
(b) Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
(c) Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
(d) Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
(e) Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.
Does your resume demonstrate that you meet the KSA's through your experience?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title 
Duties (be as detailed as possible) 
Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) 
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
This information is used to verify qualifications.

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties and responsibilities you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement! 

LICENSE AND TRANSCRIPTS- Please provide a copy of your official transcripts and licensure to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙