Position Title
Portfolio Acquisitions Executive for Medical Digital Solutions
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQKF-26-13057294-SES Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Portfolio Acquisitions Executive for Medical Digital Solutions Senior Executive Service position with the Department of War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
If you are not a current or former SES Career employee (appointed under Title 5 U.S.C. 3393), or a graduate of an approved SES Candidate Development Program (SESCDP), you must also address each of the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ) within your resume. Your resume must not exceed 2 pages using no less than 10-point font and no less than 0.5-inch margins all around. Please select the response that best describes your application package:
 I have addressed each of the Executive Core Qualification within my 2-page resume.
 I am a current OR former SES Career employee, appointed under Title 5 U.S.C. 3393; therefore, I am not required to provide a response to the Executive Core Qualifications. My application package DOES include a copy of my SES Career appointment SF50, as required.
 I am a graduate of an approved SES Candidate Development Program and am not required to provide a response to the Executive Core Qualifications. My application package DOES include my OPM Certificate of Eligibility, as required.
 My application package does NOT meet the requirements for addressing the Executive Core Qualifications.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙