Position Title
FFSP Program Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12815114 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 18, 2025 to Friday, November 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the FFSP Program Analyst position. Failure to respond to all question will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



1.
Do you have at least one year of program management experience planning, implementing and administering FFSP programs?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the response that best describes your experience tracking, compiling, inputting and analyzing various data, metrics and projects. 
 I have five years or more of experience with the above.
 I have four to five years of experience with the above.
 I have three to four years of experience with the above.
 I have one to three years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.

Please select the response that best describes your experience utilizing the Fleet and Family Support Management Information System (FFSMIS).
 I have five years or more of experience with the above.
 I have four to five years of experience with the above.
 I have three to four years of experience with the above.
 I have one to three years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙