Position Title
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority Maintenance Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHN-26-13056699-FUL-BB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 100 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): 3 miles East of Hwy 191 on Rt N7, Chinle AZ 86503

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Maintenance Worker WG-4749-7 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your responses. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answers you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified, or you may be placed in a lower quality category.


ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF A MAINTENANCE WORKER, WG-4749-7 WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION


1.
From the descriptions below select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-7 position. Experience must be demonstrated in at least two of the following trades: Carpentry (constructs, installs, repairs and replace items such as doors, shelves, etc.); Painting (preparing surfaces, determine painting materials to be used and method of application, and painting a variety of surfaces); Plumbing (replace various valves, unions, elbows, fixtures, toilets, faucets and various types of pipe and copper lines, cut and thread pipes, winterize water systems, etc.); Roofing (repairs and patching, tar and paper, metal foam roofs and asphalt shingles); Electrical (repairs including removing, replacing, tightening, splicing, and insulating defective wiring and fixtures; Cement Finishing (building and setting forms for sidewalks and steps, mixes pours, spreads, and levels cement and concrete in preparation for final finishing; Masonry (maintenance, measures, determines amount of concrete, sets forms, pours and finishes concrete to blueprint standards and project specifications); Wastewater Plant Operator (monitoring equipment and gauges, performing routine tests, recording the results in reports, collecting samples, adjusting the rate of flow and amounts of chemicals to be used; Water Plant Operator (monitoring pumping equipment, regulating water, reading meters gauges and charts, recording readings and preparing reports).

 Have experience that demonstrates the ability to independently perform difficult and complex Maintenance Worker tasks in at least two of the trades listed above. I troubleshoot and take initiative to solve problems in accomplishing work assignments.
 Have experience that demonstrates the ability to use my own initiative in performing the full range of Maintenance Worker tasks in at least two of the trades listed above. I make less technical decisions under normal supervision.
 Have experience that demonstrates the ability to perform the full range of Maintenance Worker tasks in at least two of the trades listed above assisting journeymen or other higher graded maintenance workers.
 I have not performed the maintenance worker tasks as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙