Position Title
Lead Human Resources Specialist (ER/LR)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZK-13024672-26-SW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: HOURS OF WORK/TIME ZONE: This section includes a question about the hours of work and/or time zone for this position. Carefully read the following question and please provide an answer to the question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to the below question will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you understand the hours of work for this position are Pacific Standard Time (PST) and are you willing to work a schedule that includes the core hours of 10:00 am to 2:30 pm (PST)?
 Yes
 No


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this does not apply to you.) The grade may have been in any occupation, but must have been held in the Federal service. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. For this GS-13 position you must have served 52 weeks at GS-12.


2.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement for the GS-13 grade level?
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 grade level. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 I am currently a GS-13 or have held a higher grade. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks)
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: This section includes questions about the BASIC REQUIREMENTS for this position. Carefully read the following description and only select ONE statement below that best describes your experience for this position. If you select more than one response or leave this section blank, you will be rated as ineligible for this position. If you do not meet the BASIC REQUIREMENTS, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive further consideration for this position. Read all responses before making your selection.


3.
To qualify for the Human Resources Specialist position, candidates must meet the following basic requirements as described in one of the following methods as well as the requirements in the grade determination below.

Method 1: Merit-Based Method. The Merit-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following specialized experience: The candidate must possess one year of specialized experience requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying basic HR concepts, laws, principles, policies, methods, practices and/or HR systems. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. This experience must be equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government.
Method 2: Education-Based Method. The Education-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Successful completion of bachelor's degree (or higher).
Method 3: Training-Based Method. The Training-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Six months of general experience, equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government, requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying laws, regulations, rules, principles, policies, methods, practices, supporting customers, communicating in writing and/or verbally and using various computer systems and office equipment in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions, plus the possession of one of the four training criteria:

Training 1: Successful completion of at least 12 credit hours of college-level (associate degree or higher level) course work in any of the following types of fields, majors or programs or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs: HR (general), HR development, HR management, business, business management/administration, industrial relations, labor relations, industrial psychology, organizational psychology, organizational development, management, organizational behavior, pre-law/law, legal studies, health care management/administration, public administration, public policy, human services, leadership and humanities.
Training 2: Successful completion of at least four formal training courses in HR. The focus of these HR courses will be in areas or those closely related to general HR, Federal HR, private sector/corporate HR or HR management. These courses must be offered through VA (i.e., Talent Management System courses), Federal agencies/departments (i.e., OPM Federal Human Resources Institute) or through external organizations (i.e., HR Certification Institute (HRCI?) Learning, HR University or Management Concepts). For the purpose of this standard, formal means interactive (online or in-person) training that includes communication between the participants and/or the instructor. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of successful completion by the training organization.
Training 3: Successful completion of a formal certificate program in any of the areas (or related areas) listed in Training 1 (above) or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs. A formal certificate program for the purposes of this standard means a series or set of courses that provide a foundational or advanced knowledge. The courses must have been provided by an accredited college, university, organization or company and must have required assignments and/or other course work. Examples of providers include, but are not limited to, Purdue University, Global Cornell University (i.e., eCornell) or Wharton School. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of completion by the training organization.
Training 4: Current professional HR certification through the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM), HRCI?, International Public Management Association (IPMA) (or Public Sector HR Association (PSHRA)), American Society for Health Care Human Resources Administration (ASHHRA) or an organization or company that has a formal structure and is nationally recognized by the profession.
 I meet the Merit-Based Method 1 as described above.
 I meet the Education-Based Method 2 as described above. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I meet the Training-Based Method with Training Method 1 as described above. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I meet the Training-Based Method with Training Method 2 as described above. (CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION REQUIRED)
 I meet the Training-Based Method with Training Method 3 as described above. (CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION REQUIRED)
 I meet the Training-Based Method with Training Method 4 as described above. (CERTIFICATE REQUIRED)
 I do not meet any of the Basic Requirements.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the qualifications for this position. Carefully read the following description and only select ONE statement below that best describes your experience for this position. If you select more than one response or leave this section blank, you will be rated as ineligible for this position. If you do not meet the MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive further consideration for this position. Read all responses before making your selection.

Resume Reminder - Your resume must provide your full name, mailing address and day/evening phone numbers, highest federal civilian grade held; for each work experience, list job title (include series/grade if Federal Job), duties and accomplishments for each job title, employer's name/address, supervisor's name/phone number, starting and ending dates (month/year), and hours per week. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Transcript Reminder- A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. The transcript will have to show degree awarded/conferred date to account for credit. OR, list total credit hours.


4.
GRADE DETERMINATION GS-13:Graduate Degree and Specialized Experience: Successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Analyzes and interprets operating procedures to deal with emerging human resource management issues within employee and labor relations; identifies, distributes and balances workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established work flow; provides training and coaching on appropriate work methods, practices and procedures; serves as subject matter expert regarding policies and procedures; applies laws, executive orders, regulations, collective bargaining agreements concepts, principles and guidelines in support an employee and labor relations program; represents management at arbitrations and in situations involving proceedings before other third parties; responds to inquiries about disciplinary actions, grievances, and appeals in especially unresolved, complex cases.. ~OR~

Specialized Experience: You must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in federal service that demonstrates HR management knowledge, concepts and principles and the performance of work in one or more of the HR specialty areas. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Analyzes, interprets and develops new operating procedures as necessary to deal with emerging human resource management issues within employee and labor relations; identifies, distributes and balances workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established work flow, skill level and specialization; provides training and coaching on appropriate work methods, practices and procedures; serves as subject matter expert regarding policies and procedures; applies laws, executive orders, regulations, collective bargaining agreements concepts, principles and guidelines in support an employee and labor relations program; represents management at arbitrations and in situations involving proceedings before other third parties; responds to inquiries about disciplinary actions, grievances, and appeals in especially unresolved, complex cases.



 I have a graduate level degree or higher and 3 years of specialized experience equivalent to GS-11.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-12.
 My experience and/or education is not described above. (SCREEN OUT)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙