Position Title
THEATER CASHIER (FLIX)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12968523 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please, respond all questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Irregular working hours may be required to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when the need arises. Are you available to work all shifts including on weekends and holidays?
 Yes
 No


2.

Do you have experience in operating a Point of Sale System (POS), and/or cash register and receiving various kinds of payments and making change?
 I have 2+ years of experience in the above
 I have 1-2 years of experience in the above
 I have 6 months- 1 Year experience in the above
 I have less than 6 months experience in the above
 I have no experience in the above


3.
Indicate your level of experience with basic arithmetic in computing charges and making accurate change
 I have 2+years of experience in the above
 I have 1-2 year of experience in the above
 I have 6 months- 1 year experience in the above
 I have less than 6 months experience in the above
 I have no experience in the above


4.
Describe your experience with customer service and dealing with the public.
 1 year or more direct experience within MWR or other government program
 1 year or more experience outside MWR/DOD program
 6 months to 1 year experience
 I have less that 6 months experience
 I have no experience


5.
Describe your Food Handling experience
 Prior MWR food handling experience (snack bars or food beverage)
 1 or more years of food handling experience outside of MWR
 Less than 6 months of food handling experience outside of MWR
 No food handling experience


6.
Do you have clerical experience such as maintaining routine reports?
 I have more than 1 year of clerical experience
 I have 6 months to 1 year of clerical experience
 I have less than 6 months of clerical experience
 I have no clerical experience


7.

Do you have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions?
 Yes, I have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions
 No, I do not have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙