Position Title
Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12806652-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 17, 2025 to Tuesday, December 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification. Your resume will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - To qualify for appointment as a RRT in VHA, all applicants must meet the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
EDUCATION: I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application.

The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred. In progress degrees are not eligible.  This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. We cannot make assumptions regarding your education.

If your school program was accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.

Do you meet the education requirements as indicated above?
 Yes
 No


2.
LICENSURE: Persons appointed or reassigned to Registered Respiratory Therapist positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist.

Do you hold a current and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist license?

You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.
 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I'm currently employed in VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and have been determined to be covered by the Grandfathering Provision and may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation.
 I DO NOT possess a license as described in the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
CREDENTIAL: Persons appointed or reassigned to Registered Respiratory Therapist positions must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).

Do you have a current and valid RRT credential?

You must submit a copy of your credential with your application. It must include the following info: Type of credential earned (CRT/RRT), Registration Number, Issue date, Expiration date.  Expired documents will not be considered.
 Yes
 No


4.
Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-12.

Experience, Licensure and Credential.
Candidates must:

Experience. Have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. RRTs at this grade level in this assignment have experience demonstrating advanced practice skills and clinical judgment across many areas of respiratory care both inpatient and outpatient.

Credential. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to assign personnel and tasks to be accomplished in a manner that assures completion of the workload.
Ability to oversee and direct clinical guidance in a manner that assures completion of the workload.
Ability to communicate with individuals of varying backgrounds to solve problems and provide conflict resolution.
Ability to recommend uncommon or atypical interventions.
Ability to recommend ways to improve patient care and operations through independent research and evaluation of new equipment and therapies.
Do you possess the GS-12 level specialized experience and the KSAs as described above?

It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit.
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENT - The following is used to determine the grade requirements for a Registered Respiratory Therapist. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position.


RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
* Updated and accurate duties (be as detailed as possible)
* Grade level (applicable for state or federal jobs)
* Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2020 to April 2025)
* Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).


REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees can submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙