Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Beach Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12896879 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you live or work within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live or work and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to work a Flexible and varied work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty to include nights, weekends and holidays; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess six (6) months of general experience in recreation and six (6) months of specialzied experience performing the duties of a lifeguard?
 Yes
 No


2.
In order to qualify for the position of a beach lifeguard, you must currently possess and be able to maintain the following certifications:
 International Life Saving Federation or Red Cross Waterfront;
CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Emergency Response through the American Red Cross or equivalent; and
Blood Borne Pathogens.
Do you possess these required certifications and have included a copy of them in your application packet?  *Failure to submit a copy will result ineligibility for consideration.
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following duties have you performed as a Lifeguard in a working or volunteer capacity (check all that apply):
 A. Use and Maintain Pool Equipment
 B. Take Pool pH Readings
 C. Control, Measure and Administer Pool Chemicals
 D. Enforce Safety Regulations
 E. Successfully Recover Swimmers in a state of Panic
 F. Successfully Recover Unconscious Swimmers
 G. Administer CPR and First Aid
 H. Operate Water Pumps
 I. Complete Routine Pool Maintenance
 J. Check IDs/Confirm Pool Use Eligibility
 K. Disinfect Pool and Shower Areas
 L. File and Complete Incident Reports
 M. Report Safety Violations
 N. Supervise Swimmers
 O. Perform Rescue Work
 P. Schedule Events
 Q. Supervise Youth Activities
 R. Demonstrating Activities
 S. Instructing Classes
 T. I have not performed any of the duties listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙