Position Title
Dietitian - Clinical
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12923860-26-FM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and registration/certification, where applicable. Employees appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, either on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. The following provisions apply to employees who do not meet all the qualification requirements: (1)Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level or changed to a lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in a supervisory or managerial position. (2)Employees must meet the assignment-specific certification/education requirements to be placed in Dietitian (Advanced Level Practice) or Dietitian (Dietetic Internship Director) assignments. (3)Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain additional education and/or registration/certification that meet all the qualification standard's basic or assignment-specific requirements must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation/assignment. (4)Employees retained in this occupation under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re- entry in the occupation. Please answer the following questions:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Dietitian candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Registration: All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Note: Applicants who hold the RDN credential have met the education requirement (e.g. bachelor's degree or higher) of CDR.
RDN and Registered Dietitian (RD) credentials are the same and both are qualifying. The difference between RDN and RD is in name only due to a change by the professional academy in 2014. (applicants who posses the RDN must provide a copy of their registration with their application).

Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN credential.
(a) Non-credentialed Dietitians who meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a temporary full-time appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2).

Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following: Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent AND completed an ACEND? accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND? accredited programs is located on the ACEND website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory. NOTE: non-credentialed applicants must submit a copy of their transcripts AND evidence of completed ACEND practice program stated above; applications without required documentation will not be considered.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND and meet ACEND's International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam. (Transcripts and ACEND evaluation must be submitted with application; applications without required documentation will not be considered)

**Non-credentialed Dietitians may only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level and may not be promoted/converted until they obtain their RDN credential.
**Non-credentialed Dietitians must provide care under the supervision of a RDN at or above the full performance level.
**Temporary appointments of non-credentialed Dietitian will not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.
**Failure to Obtain Registration. In all cases, Dietitians must actively pursue meeting registration requirements starting from their appointment date. At the time of appointment, servicing Human Resources (HR) staff in collaboration with the supervisor, will provide non-registered Dietitians the written requirement to obtain registration, the date by which they must acquire it and the consequences for not doing so by the deadline. Failure to obtain registration within one year from the date of appointment will result in removal from the Dietitian, GS-0630 occupation and may result in termination of employment.

Please select the below option that best describes how you meet the above stated requirements:

 I hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and have attached it to my application.
 I am a non credentialed dietitian; I earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent AND completed an ACEND? accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. I understand I may only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level under a temporary appointment not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.
 I do not meet any of the requirements stated above.


Grade Determination: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Please note the following: Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) associated with current professional dietetic practice and must have been gained post registration. This may be evidenced by one or more of the following: (1) The equivalent of 1 year of active professional practice. Active professional practice means paid/non-paid employment as a registered Dietitian. (2) Academic course work leading to an advanced graduate degree in nutrition or a related health care field. Quality of Experience. Qualifying experience must be comparable to dietetic experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a registered Dietitian is credited according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a registered Dietitian employed 20 hours per week, or on a half-time basis, would receive 1 full-time work week of credit for each 2 weeks of service.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-07.

Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the basic requirements stated above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09.

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. OR

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college. (a copy of transcripts is required with your application)

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
(b) Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
(c) Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
(d) Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
(e) Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
(f) Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
(g) Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.

NOTE: all experience and KSA's must be clearly stated on resume and reflected within detailed job duties per employment; no assumptions will be made.

Do you meet the above stated requirements?
 Yes
 No


5.
Dietitian (Clinical) GS-11

Experience: At least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade of GS9.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
(b) Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
(c) Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
(d) Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
(e) Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
(f) Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.

NOTE: all experience and KSA's must be clearly stated on resume and reflected within detailed job duties per employment; no assumptions will be made.

Do you meet the above stated experience AND KSA requirement?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job Title and a summary of duties. (be as detailed as possible) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (MUST include hours worked per week). * Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. * Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. NOTE: applicants with prior or current federal experience are required to submit SF50's to validate employment and grade; no assumptions will be made.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙