Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12889595-AR-26-028 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 (G6) applicants ONLY. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician in the G-6; or a current Title 5 employee of the G-6.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E4 - E9, WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O4?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E4 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O4.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1 - O4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your abilitiy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process; experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-11: Do you possess1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. In addition to the OPM IORs (Alternative A) specialized experience examples, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-12:  Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 Yes
 No


4.

Describe a time when you were responsible for resolving a critical digital communications issue that involved multiple stakeholders (e.g., headquarters staff, tenant activities, and other agencies). What was the nature of the integration or interoperability problem, what steps did you take to diagnose and solve it, and what was the final outcome?



5.

This position is responsible for developing the communications architecture and maintaining the enterprise infrastructure. Tell us about a time you developed a plan for a future communications infrastructure (digital, analog, or ATM). How did you ensure your plan aligned with the organization's strategic goals, and how did you approach the budgeting and funding requirements for the project?



6.

Describe your experience in developing and implementing policy for a complex organization. Provide an example of a time you wrote and implemented a significant policy or plan, such as a Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP). How did you test the plan and ensure it would be effective in a real-world scenario?



7.

This position involves leadership and guidance of other communications personnel. Describe a situation where you were responsible for leading a team or mentoring lower-graded employees. How did you distribute the workload, provide training, and handle challenges to ensure the team successfully maintained the communications infrastructure?



8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙