Position Title
Supervisory Transportation Specialist (Chief, Report Development Division)
Agency
National Transportation Safety Board
Announcement Number
IMP-13062563-26-TT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NTSB Federal civilian employee occupying a Career or Career-Conditional position in the Competitive Service? To be eligible,your Notification of Personnel Action(SF-50) must reflect your agency, permanent tenure and competitive status:
Tenure: Career or Career-conditional (Field#24 is 1 or 2);
Position Occupied: Competitive service (Field#34 is 1); and
Employing Agency: NTSB
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Non-Competitive Current NTSB Federal Employees:

I am a current NTSB Federal Employee, and you must meet one of the following eligibilities:
I am currently at a higher grade level than the full performance level of the position being announced; or
I have competed for and am currently at the same grade level as the full performance level of the position being announced; or
I am currently serving in a position with full performance level equivalent to or higher than the full performance level of the position being announced; or
I have previously served on a permanent competitive or career appointment AND have held the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential; or
I have obtained career-conditional status (within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND have held the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Transportation Specialist, GS-2101-15 position with the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


1.
Please select the response below that best indicates how you meet the Basic Qualification requirement for the Supervisory Transportation Specialist, GS-2101-15 position. You must submit proof of your degree, course work or experience. If claiming experience, you must provide a detailed description of your experience on your resume. Failure to provide transcripts, coursework or detailed descriptions of experience will cause you to lose consideration for this position.
 I possess an undergraduate and graduate education with a major study in accounting, business administration, business or commercial law, commerce, economics, engineering, finance, industrial management, statistics, traffic management, transportation, motor mechanics, or other fields related to the position.
 I possess specialized experience that demonstrates a knowledge of the transportation functions of the position to be filled.
 I do not possess the education or experience as described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Supervisory Transportation Specialist, GS-2101-15 position. You must provide a detailed description of your experience on your resume. Your resume must support the response you select.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service managing the development and execution of written reports and other products related to accident investigations and/or designing and conducting studies of transportation safety; experience conducting research, analyzing evidence, and organizing technical information necessary to support investigative findings; experience organizing a major project such as a board meeting, hearing, symposium, forum; and must have applied that knowledge in a written report; and experience developing reports and documents that are clear to a variety of audiences including professionals, engineers, scientists and congressional staff and board members.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙