Position Title
Registered Radiologist Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13054269-26-TC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following are the requirements for appointment as a Registered Radiologist Assistant (RRA) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education: Completion of a Radiologist Assistant program, and a bachelor's degree approved by the ARRT.

Foreign Education: Foreign education is vetted and approved by ARRT as a pre- requisite for certification. No additional documentation or verification of foreign education is required for applicants fully certified by ARRT.

Do you possess above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Credentialing Standards: Public Law 97-35, the Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981, requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75 - Standards for the Accreditation of Educational Programs and the Credentialing of Radiographic Personnel. Applicants must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as radiographer (RT). Applicants must also have passed the ARRT exam and obtained Registered Radiologist Assistant (RRA) certification.

Do you possess ARRT and RRA certifications?
 Yes
 No


Grade Level Requirements: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


GS-9 Registered Radiologist Assistant: RRAs at this level operate and monitor equipment, such as Fluoroscopy and CT, to perform procedures under general supervision as limited by modality specific advanced certification, see 4a above. The RRA functions independently in carrying out these standardized procedures of various complexities. In addition to the entry level duties, RRAs at this level perform complex invasive and non-invasive procedures utilizing the various modalities in Imaging. These are performed under the general and direct supervision of the radiologist or other supervising physician. The full performance level RRA is skilled in assessing patient vital signs, responding to emergent situations, and entering documentation in the EHR.


3.
GS-9 Experience: At least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Examples of experience include but are not limited to: operating and monitoring equipment, such as Fluoroscopy and CT, to perform procedures under close supervision as limited by modality specific advanced certification; functions under the direct supervision of a radiologist or similarly-privileged physician qualified to supervise the RRA in carrying out these standardized procedures of various complexities; developmental duties involving more complex procedures, such as biopsies, aspirations, and/or peripherally inserted central catheter line placements, which are designed to prepare the RRA for promotion to higher grades in a functional area. Such duties are performed under closer supervision.

OR,

GS-9 Education: Master's degree related to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation must be appropriate for the position being filled.


Do you possess the above experience or education?
 Experience: At least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.
 Education: Master's degree related to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation must be appropriate for the position being filled.
 No, I do not meet any of the above; therefore, I am ineligible for the GS-9 grade level and above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-9 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of Imaging techniques following as low as reasonably achievable principles in various modalities.
Ability to perform various diagnostic procedures, including fluoroscopy, and evaluate images for completeness and diagnostic quality.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, as well as, contrast and general medications prescribed by the radiologist/physician.
Ability to perform all routine invasive procedures under the direct and/or general supervision of the radiologist or supervising physician, including vascular procedures with image guidance, contrast administration, needle and/or catheter placement.
Ability to assess a patient's clinical record, diagnosis, laboratory results, perform a radiology focused physical exam on the patient and documenting the EHR.
Ability to perform invasive vascular procedures with image guidance, including contrast administration, needle or catheter placement.


Do you possess the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?
 Yes
 No


GS-11 Registered Radiologist Assistant: RRAs at this level perform and/or assist with complex invasive procedures, such as embolization and interventional oncology procedures in the Interventional Section, receiving guidance and direction from the radiologist or other supervising physician, regarding unfamiliar or unusual situations for the more complex patient issues. Candidates at this grade level may be assigned to provide specialty service in the Interventional Section.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-11 Experience: At least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Examples of experience include but are not limited to: operating and monitoring equipment, such as Fluoroscopy and CT, to perform procedures under general supervision as limited by modality specific advanced certification; perform complex invasive and non-invasive procedures utilizing the various modalities in Imaging; skills in assessing patient vital signs, responding to emergent situations, and entering documentation in the EHR.

Do you possess above experience?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-11 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to perform complex invasive procedures in the Interventional Section under the direct supervision of the radiologist or other supervising physician.
Skills to maintain image quality in multiple sections of radiology.
Ability to function with initiative and progressively independent judgment within his/her sphere of responsibility.
Advanced knowledge to prioritize exams and procedures.


Do you possess the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?
 Yes
 No


Creditable Experience: To be creditable, experience must have demonstrated possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics (also referred to as clinical competencies) associated with current radiologist assistant practices. The experience may have been evidenced by the equivalent of one year of active practice, which is paid or non-paid employment as an RRA, as defined by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT). Quality of Experience: Experience is only creditable if it was earned after completing an ARRT approved radiologist assistant program with a minimum of a Bachelor's degree. The experience may be acquired under a temporary appointment while seeking ARRT RRA certification.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙