Position Title
Fish and Wildlife Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R8-26-13018172-26-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Education


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Please select the letter that best describes how you meet the education requirements for this position.
 I possess a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that is equivalent to a major in a biological science plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not have the education or experience (or combination) as described above.


Minimum GS-7


2.
Please select one response from the choices below to show how you meet the additional qualification requirements for this position at the grade GS-07 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in Federal service. Examples of specialized experience may include: assisting in reviewing biological portions of environmental assessment/impact statements or comprehensive resource planning reports to evaluate environmental consequences of proposed actions; researching potential impacts of proposed programs or actions to determine the effects of those programs or actions on threatened and endangered species; assisting with preparing portions of draft biological opinions/assessments as required under Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) for the supervisor's review and/or discussion; maintaining and updating files on permits issued for activities associated with endangered, threatened, proposed, and candidate species and their habitats; gathering, organizing, and interpreting biological, ecological, pathological, public use, or other pertinent information to ensure management plans are current; and implementing federal environmental laws (i.e., Endangered Species Act, specifically Sections 7 and 10; Clean Water Act; Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act; National Environmental Policy Act), regulations, and policies involving natural resource issues. NOTE: Your resume must contain sufficient information in these areas to be found qualified.
 I have successfully completed at least 1 full year of graduate education from an accredited college or university in wildlife biology, ecology, or a directly related field appropriate to this position.
 I have Superior Academic Achievement (SAA): Successfully completed a bachelor's degree in a directly related field AND meet one of the following: (1) Class Standing: rank in the upper 3rd of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, based on the completed courses; OR (2) Grad-Point Average (GPA): earn a GPA of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on 4 years of education, or based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum -or- (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field, or the required courses completed during the final two years. Note: GPA will be rounded to one decimal place, for example, 2.95 = 3.0, 2.94 = 2.9; OR (3) Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society
 I have an equivalent combination of professional experience and education beyond the first 60 semester hours towards a bachelor's degree which together equals 100% of the requirements. (When combining education with experience, first determine the total qualifying education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; then determine the experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; finally, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level.)
 I do not have the education or experience (or combination) as described above.


Minimum GS-9


3.
Please select one response from the choices below to show how you meet the additional qualification requirements for this position at the grade GS-09 level.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level in Federal service. Specialized experience may include: conducting biological or ecological investigations to determine the impact of various land and water development projects upon the fish and/or wildlife resources of an area; reviewing permit applications; assisting in developing comprehensive fish and/or wildlife management plans; preparing portions of draft biological opinions/assessments as required under Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act (ESA); reviewing biological portions of environment assessment/impact statements or resource planning reports; implementing biological work and/or habitat preservation and development work for endangered, threatened, proposed, and candidate species and their habitats; and implementing federal environmental laws (i.e., Endangered Species Act, specifically Sections 7 and 10; Clean Water Act; Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act; National Environmental Policy Act), regulations, and policies involving natural resource issues. NOTE: Your resume must contain sufficient information in these areas to be found qualified.
 I have completed two years of progressively higher level graduate education at an accredited college or university leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in wildlife biology, ecology, or a directly related field appropriate to this position.
 I have an equivalent combination of professional experience and graduate level education beyond the first year which together equals 100% of the requirements. (When combining education with experience, first determine the total qualifying education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; then determine the experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; finally, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level.)
 I do not have the education or experience (or combination) as described above.


Minimum GS-11


4.
Please select one response from the choices below to show how you meet the additional qualification requirements for this position at the grade GS-11 level.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience may include: 1) conducting complex biological or ecological investigations to determine the impact of various land and water development projects upon endangered species and their habitats; 2) negotiating alternative actions or mitigation measures, etc.; 3) developing habitat conservation or restoration projects; 4) serving as a technical advisor on the Endangered Species Act for other staff, government agencies, land owners, private interest groups, etc.; 5) preparing biological portions of environmental assessment/impact statements or comprehensive resource planning reports; 6) ensure federal environmental laws, regulations, and policies involving natural resources issues are implemented (i.e., Endangered Species Act, specifically Sections 7 and 10; Clean Water Act; Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act; National Environmental Policy Act).
 I have completed 3 years of graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in wildlife biology, ecology, or a directly related field appropriate to this position.
 I have an equivalent combination of professional experience and graduate level education beyond the second year which together equals 100% of the requirements. (When combining education with experience, first determine the total qualifying education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; then determine the experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; finally, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level.)
 I do not have the education or specialized experience (or combination) as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙