Position Title
Personnel Security Adjudicator
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
27-13075500-X
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 11
 12
 13
2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No
4.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 FedExperience website
 USAJOBS website
 Community Organization
 Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 Friend/Relative
 Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 Magazine
 Newspaper
 School, College, Counselor
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 Other
5.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable
6.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No
7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.
8.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 Navigating USAJOBS
 Writing Your Federal Resume
 Interviewing Techniques
 Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 I have not attended any sessions.
0982091
.
Specialized Experience for the GS-13, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: - Experience reviewing and adjudicating completed investigation reports and making determinations regarding credentialing, suitability, fitness, or eligibility to occupy national security positions, including recommending or taking appropriate action on unfavorable findings; AND - Experience applying personnel security laws, regulations, policies, or adjudicative guidelines and utilizing personnel security data management systems and resources to support personnel security determinations and ensure regulatory compliance.
1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).
.
Specialized Experience for the GS-12, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: - Experience reviewing and evaluating background investigations and other personnel security records to identify and evaluate issues related to credentialing, suitability, fitness, or eligibility to occupy national security positions; AND - Experience applying personnel security regulations, policies, procedures, or adjudicative guidelines to recommend, process, or document personnel security actions.
2.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.
2a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).
.
Specialized Experience for the GS-11, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: - Experience reviewing background investigation reports, personnel records, or other security-related documentation and applying established personnel security regulations, policies, procedures, or guidelines to process or support credentialing, suitability, fitness, or personnel security actions. OR; EDUCATION: You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: - Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR - 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR - LL.M., if related. OR; COMBINATION OF EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: You may qualify on a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
3.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described that together qualify me for this position.
 I do not meet or exceed the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement and I do not meet the education requirements as stated above.
3a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).&nbsp;
