Position Title
Maintenance Worker Leader
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12955589 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
Incumbent works both indoors and outdoors, which may include climbing, bending, lifting, and working in awkward positions. Incumbent may be exposed to inclement weather, heat, chemical fumes, dust, dirt and grease.

Are you able to work in these conditions?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with us. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least two years of experience that demonstrates skill or knowledge in a combination of at least two of the following trades: carpentry, plumbing or painting?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the answer that best represents your work experience in maintenance and/or construction work.
 I have at 3+ years of experience in maintenance and/or construction work.
 I have 1 - 3 years of experience in in maintenance and/or construction work.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in in maintenance and/or construction work.
 I do not have any experience as mentioned above.


3.
Please describe your experience in carpentry to include measuring, cutting, and constructing or repairing wood or wood substitute items, such as staging parts, concrete forms and dry wall?
 I have more than three (3) years of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience in carpentry as described above.
 I do not have any experience in carpentry as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have performing plumbing repairs, including but not limited to removing, cleaning, resealing, and replacing defective parts or units of utility, supply, and disposal systems (such as dirty traps, broken tiles, damaged pipes, leaky faucets, and stopped drains), as well as installing water heaters, garbage disposals, faucets, and sinks?
 I have more than three (3) years of work experience in plumbing as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience in plumbing as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of work experience in plumbing as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience in plumbing as described above.
 I do not have any work experience in plumbing as described above.


5.
Please describe your experience applying paint using standard methods such as brushing, rolling, and spraying, to ensure surfaces are fully coated, protected and free from drips and runs.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience applying paint as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience applying paint as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience applying paint as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience applying paint as described above.
 I do not have any experience applying paint as described above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have using of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools?
 I have more than three (3) years of work experience using tools as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience using tools as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of work experience using tools as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience using tools as described above.
 I have no work experience using tools as described above.


7.
How many years of supervisory or lead experience do you have currently?
 I have more than three (3) years of work experience as described above.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of work experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I do not have any work experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙