Position Title
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST (PC-MHI PROGRAM MANAGER)
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQ-KF-26-13056067-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Antonio, TX
 B. Falls Church, VA


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Clinical Psychologist (PC-MHI Program Manager) GS-0180-14 position with Department of the Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Clinical Psychologist (PC-MHI Program Manager) at the GS-0180-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
The Clinical Psychologist (PC-MHI Program Manager) position requires a current, active, valid, unrestricted clinical license to practice Psychology independently, offered by a U.S. State, District of Columbia, commonwealth, territory or jurisdiction. Do you have a current, active, valid, unrestricted clinical license to practice Psychology independently? (NOTE: You must provide a copy of your license with your application package.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Clinical Psychologist (PC-MHI Program Manager) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience which includes managing a behavioral health program; developing clinical policies, guidelines, or standard operating procedures for psychological services; evaluating program outcomes and clinical data to drive healthcare quality improvement; and providing expert consultation to leadership. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-13).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙