Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12998886-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-12: For the GS-12, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes all of the following:
- Overseeing and performing a variety of administrative management practices and procedures and organizational techniques; AND
- Working with automated office systems such as word processing , databases, graphics presentation,  or spreadsheet software; AND
- Experience in independently carrying out assignments in records and office management; AND
- Making travel arrangements and scheduling domestic and international travel.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Specialized experience for the GS-11: For the GS-11, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes all of the following:
- Performing administrative management practices and procedures and organizational functions; AND
- Working with automated office systems such as word processing, databases, graphics presentation, or spreadsheet software); AND
- Experience in records and office management; AND
- Making travel arrangements and scheduling travel.
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
OR
You may qualify based on the equivalent combination of education and experience.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your education or experience.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related, that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal Service.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study (only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for a GS-11 position) and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


Specialized experience for the GS-09: You must have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-07 level. Specialized experience for this position includes all of the following:
- Performing administrative management practices and procedures and organizational functions; AND
- Working with automated office systems (word processing, databases, graphics presentation, or spreadsheet software;
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Master's (or equivalent graduate degree) or completed 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent degree.
OR
You may qualify based on the equivalent combination of education and experience.


3.
Select the choice which best describes your experience and/or education.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-07 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 I have earned a Master's (or equivalent graduate degree) or I have completed 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent degree.
 I have a combination of experience and education leading to a Master's or equivalent degree in a field related to this position. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 2 years may be combined with experience.
 I do not have either education or experience as described above.


4.
From the following choices, please select the one that reflects your highest level of experience administering a time and attendance reporting system.
 I have maintained records of attendance, leave, and overtime authorized by my supervisor for subordinate staff members.
 I have entered time and attendance (T&A) records into automated timekeeping or payroll systems.
 I have advised and assisted employees, supervisors, and managers in completing time and attendance (T&A) forms and resolving errors concerning work schedules, premium pay, and leave.
 I have been formally trained in time and attendance (T&A) recordkeeping, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job.
 I have trained others on time and attendance rules and procedures.
 None of the above.


5.
Which of the following types of experience do you have in regards to managing daily assignments by planning and organizing tasks to carry out work functions?
 A. I keep a calendar of appointments for my supervisor, and routinely remind my supervisor of upcoming appointments or due dates.
 B. I have managed daily office or administrative tasks as an office manager or similar position.
 C. I plan my own work daily using lists, and/or by maintaining a personal calendar of upcoming appointments, to keep tasks organized.
 D. I maintain a calendar for my office unit to keep track of upcoming events, due dates, or schedules.
 E. I coordinate work functions or tasks with others in the office to ensure they are completed on time.
 F. I have worked in a fast paced environment where staff is required to balance multiple projects at once and meet short, medium, and long term goals and deadlines.
 G. None of the above.


6.
Which of the following types of experience do you have in regards to reviewing and compiling information and documentation, using and maintaining electronic case management systems, and customer service?
 A. I have experience reviewing, organizing, and compiling voluminous and complex administrative records, investigative packages, and other document submissions and files for staff and/or managers.
 B. I have experience using and maintaining electronic case management systems, including by uploading pertinent information and documentation, organizing data in a consistent and easily accessible fashion, conducting audits of files to ensure accuracy, and generating reports for internal and/or external use.
 C. I have implemented a standard operating procedure, policy, or practice for organizing the receipt of, and responding to, inquiries, submissions, and questions submitted to my organization
 D. I have experience engaging with clients, members of the public, or internal or external parties who contact my organization and ensuring their questions and inquiries are directed to the appropriate personnel and responded to.
 E. None of the above.


7.
From the list below, select the choice that most closely represents your experience with planning, coordinating, and arranging meetings, conferences, or workshops.
 I have planned and coordinated high-level multi-agency conferences, meetings, and/or workshops. This included advising attendees on meeting agenda, travel requirements, identifying security issues and arranging for authorized access/entry, making arrangements or conference/meeting rooms and ensuring for availability of required equipment.
 I have independently planned and coordinated high level meetings within my organization (typically with heads of offices or organizations). This included making travel arrangements, ensuring proper meeting rooms were reserved, and insuring for proper levels of access.
 I have independently arranged meetings for my assigned office/organization. This typically involves arranging for a conference room/office, and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the local organization but may occasionally include other offices or external parties. If travel is involved, it is typically arranged for by the attendees organization/office.
 I typically arrange meetings for my organization based on specific instructions from my supervisor or other higher-level employee. Arrangements are typically limited to reserving an office or conference room and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the same office/organization.
 I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.


8.
Please select the response(s) that describe your experience in making domestic and/or international travel reservations and arrangements.
 A. I have independently provided administrative support to assist managers and employees in preparing travel arrangements, and have prepared complex travel authorizations, assisted travelers with making travel arrangements for domestic and foreign travel, and completed and reviewed travel vouchers following travel.
 B. I have provided administrative support to assist managers and employees in preparing travel arrangements, and have prepared standard travel authorizations, and completed reviewed travel vouchers following travel.
 C. I have experience in, and provided guidance to, employees with respect to preparing travel arrangements, travel authorizations, and travel vouchers following travel.
 D. None of the above


9.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience?
 A. Organizes, compiles, reproduces, and distributes briefing and other related materials.
 B. Maintains case management system to ensure materials are properly uploaded and information is accurately reflected in the database.
 C. Kept supervisor updated on administrative matters, conferences, briefings, meetings of major importance
 D. Reviewed documents, reports, and/or applications for omissions and inconsistencies, and ensured data was complete and accurate.
 E. Used tracking systems to monitor action items and project deadlines.
 F. Managed logistics for conferences, training, and community outreach, and other events, including food, audio-visual and computer support.
 G. Tracked commitments and assignments made in meetings through to their completion
 H. Made travel arrangements for staff
 I. Managed incoming and outgoing correspondence to ensure appropriate and timely routing, review, approval, and adherence to policies.
 J. Maintained schedules and briefing books.
 K. Established and maintained office records.
 L. None of the above.


10.
From the list below, select all the choices that most closely represents your experience with administering, overseeing, or working with an organizations budget and expenses.
 A. Tracked expenses for the budget.
 B. Coordinated training and employee development, preparing training forms and/or coordinating with the training office.
 C. Maintained credit card and purchased products and supplies for an organization.
 D. Controlled and maintained accountability for all non-expendable property and equipment.
 E. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙