Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12977871-AR-26-163 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Eastern Army Aviation Training Site
 AOC 2: NG Employees in the State Army Aviation Office (This includes AASF 1, AASF 2, and EAATS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you an Enlisted member in the grade of E-1 to E-8 in any branch of military service and are you willing to become a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education, or training in planning, developing, or administering quality assurance programs (i.e., supporting the development, acquisition, production, maintenance, storage, and supply of products concerned with the systematic prevention of defects and non-conformances, the identification of unsatisfactory trends and conditions, and the correction of factors which may contribute to defective items)? Do you have experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience, education, or training, in principles, techniques and accepted practices of quality assurance work (i.e., the application of statistical sampling techniques sufficient to perform assignments or preparation of technical reports on quality levels to identify specific problems)? Do you have experience in the application and theory of specialization using applicable publications and experience in the preparation of technical reports on quality levels to identify specific problem areas and to recommend corrective action?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙