Position Title
Marketing Coordiantor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12859480 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 31, 2025 to Jan 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Marketing Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
A bachelor's degree from an accredited university in public relations, marketing, communication, graphic design, or other closely related field with two years' experience is strongly preferred, but may be substituted by equivalent education, training and work experience to include 4 years' experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.

 A Master’s degree with a major in one of the related fields listed above and a minimum of 1 year of full-time experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.
 A Bachelor’s degree with a major in one of the related fields listed above and a minimum of 2 years of full-time experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.
 A combination of education, training and work experience to include 4 years of experience that demonstrates a professional knowledge of public relations, graphic design and event marketing.
 I have none of the above


2.
Do you have a valid state driver's license?

 I do have a valid driver’s license and will be able to furnish proof at the time of interview
 I do not have a valid driver’s license


3.
Years of experience working in public relations, event marketing, communications, graphic designing

 5+ years of documented working experience
 4 to 5 years of documented working experience
 3 to 4 years of documented working experience
 2 to 3 years of documented working experience
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year or no documented working experience


4.
What is your experience in building platforms on Social Media (Facebook, Pintrest, Twitter, Instagram, You Tube, Tumbir, Snapchat and Flickr)

 5+ years of the above mentioned platforms
 3 to 4 of the above mentioned platforms
 1 to 2 of the above mentioned platforms
 No experience


5.
What is your documented Video Experience?
 Ability to film/edit and post video clips/messages and DSLR photography
 Ability to film/edit video clips messages and DSLR photography
 Ability to film video clips/messages and DSLR photography
 No experience or documented experience


6.
What programs are you proficient in using (mark all that apply):
 A. Adobe InDesign
 B. Photoshop
 C. Illustrator
 D. Corel Draw
 E. Adobe Dreamweaver
 F. Fireworks
 G. Acrobat
 H. Microsoft Word
 I. Excel
 J. Power Point
 K. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙