Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER (DEPUTY WING COMMANDER)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MD-12879777-AF-26-027A Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 04, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Employment Criteria
1.
Are you currently an Officer in the Maryland Air National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
All GS-0340 series personnel must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level and must have a minimum of one-year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level. Do you have these experiences?
 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 36 months experience analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various resources; Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures. Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Have you ever been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No.


4.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙