Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Special Agent-HR) CTAP/ICTAP/LAND MGMT/VEOA
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13005978C-CIS-1811-12 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
2.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


3.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


4.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


5.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


6.
ICTAP Candidate - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) or equivalent personnel action form.
 
For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


7.
Land Management Candidate -Are you a current or former temporary or term employee of a Land Management (LM) agency, i.e. Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Reclamation employee?
 
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit the following:

 Land Management Employee:
 a copy of your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) showing initial appointment under competitive procedures to the time-limited appointment for a total of more than 24 months without any break in service of two (2) or more years, AND
proof of acceptable performance ratings for each period of employment used to meet the 24-month requirement.
 
Former LM Employee - You must apply within two years of your last term or temporary job date of separation, provide the documents listed above AND a copy of your separation SF-50. Your most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
 NOTE: If multiple periods of time-limited appointments exist, supporting SF-50s must be provided for each period of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Land Management resources.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


9.
VEOA Candidate - Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
 
 served three (3) or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: If released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); -OR-
are entitled to veterans' preference?
 
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Little Rock, AR
 B. Pittsburgh, PA


2.
The following question is regarding your Selective Service status. If you are a male born after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, civil service employment law (5 U.S.C. 3328) requires that you must be registered with the Selective Service System, unless you meet certain exemptions under Selective Service law. If you are required to register but knowingly and willfully fail to do so, you are ineligible for appointment by executive agencies of the Federal Government (5 CFR 300.704). Visit http://www.sss.gov/ for additional information.
 I certify that I have registered for Selective Service.
 I have not registered for Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption or served in the military continuously from age 18 to age 26.
 I have not reached my 18th birthday and understand I am required by law to register at that time.
 I was required to register for Selective Service and did not register. I do not have an approved exemption, and I have not served in the military.
 I was born female or born before January 1, 1960, and I am not required to register by law


3.
If you are a current Federal employee, by what agency and organization are you employed?
Treasury - (BEP) Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Treasury - (DO) Departmental Offices
Treasury - (FinCEN) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Treasury - (FS) Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Treasury - IRS
Treasury - IRS Office of the Chief Counsel
Treasury - (MINT) United States Mint
Treasury - (OCC) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Treasury - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Treasury - (SIGTARP) Special Inspector General for TARP
Treasury - (TIGTA) Treasury Inspector General for Tax Admin
Treasury - (TTB) Alcohol & Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
AFRH - Armed Forces Retirement Home
DHS - (USSS) United States Secret Service
DOJ - (ATF) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
FHFA - (OIG) Office of the Inspector General
FMSHRC - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
GAO - Government Accountability Office
HUD - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
USDA - (FNS) Food and Nutrition Service
USDA - (OCIO) International Technology Services
USOGE - (OGE) Office of Government Ethics
Veterans Affairs - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Other
Not Applicable


4.
If you selected "Other", please enter the agency and organization.


5.
If you are a Federal employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, competitive service
 Career-conditional Appointment, competitive service
 Career Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Permanent Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Other Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Excepted Service Appointment (other than listed)
 Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
 Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 Not Applicable


6.
If you are a current Federal employee, what is your duty station? [City, State]


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. For example: GS-05, IR-02, WG-04.


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No


10.

Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) within the past 5 years from the federal government, this is also known as a buyout?

If "Yes", you must provide a copy of your separation SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) that documents the separation incentive/buyout. If you received a separation incentive and re-employed within 5 years following the effective date of
separation you will be required to repay the entire amount of the buyout (including all deductions for taxes) to your former agency. I understand this requirement applies to any employment, of any length, in any entity of the Federal Government.
Depending on the Public Law code, the separation incentive was awarded under, it may require the repayment be made prior to the employee's first day of employment or allow for the repayment be made over an extended period of time.

 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


11.
Regarding the effectiveness of our recruitment strategies; how did you first hear about this job?
Automated USAJOBS saved search notification
Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc.)
Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)
IRS Careers Website
Referred by an IRS employee
Attended a recruitment event Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet and Greet, Meetup, etc.
IRS Veterans Program Office
School/University announcement/career counselor
Organizational third party referral diversity or community organization, church, unemployment office, etc.
Newspaper print or online
Radio
Transit/Bus Advertisement
Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites
Banner Advertisement-Movie Theater Websites
IRS Post Card Mailing
Classified Advertisement Website, Craigslist, Angies List, etc.
IRS/FNS Hiring Event
Other
I prefer not to answer


12.
If you answered "Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc." in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the job board or search agent other than USAJOBS you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the Social Media platform you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Attended a recruitment event (Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet & Greet, Meetup, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name and state of the recruiting event.

If you answered "School/University announcement/career counselor" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the school/university of the announcement where you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Third party referral, such as diversity or community organization, or employment office (Federal, state or local)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the third party referral and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Newspaper (print/online)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the newspaper and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Radio" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the radio station and state you heard the advertisement.

If you answered "Transit/Bus Advertisement" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the city and state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Movie Theater Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Classified Advertisement Website (Craigslist, Angie's List, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the website, city and state.

If you answered "Other" in the previous question, please specify in the box below.


13.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRS will be subject to a tax check. You can "Get Your Tax Record" at http://www.irs.gov/ (https://www.irs.gov/individuals/get-transcript) and check the status of your account, balance owed, payment history, make a payment, or review answers to tax questions. Applicants not in compliance will be determined unsuitable for employment with IRS. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRS.

Please select the response that best describes your compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. You will be subject to a tax check that will verify your response to this question.
 I am currently compliant with all Federal Tax requirements. I have filed all tax returns, and, if applicable, paid any balance that was due.
 I currently have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have made the necessary arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 I have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have NOT made any arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 None of the above.


14.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


15.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


16.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


17.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


18.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


19.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former noncareer SES appointee, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under Limited Term SES or Limited Emergency SES appointment in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


20.
If yes, identify the position held, the employing agency/organization, and the dates of the appointment. Please provide SF-50s showing your political appointment and, if applicable, resignation/termination SF-50.


21.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


22.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS REQUIREMENTS:

GRADE 12 LEVEL: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Government. Specialized experience is experience in or related to investigation of criminal violations that provided the specific competencies needed to successfully perform the duties of the position. This law enforcement experience must have been acquired in investigative work related to the Accounting or Auditing of business or commercial practices of subjects investigated. Qualifying experience is law enforcement experience which demonstrates Experience with accounting and legal principles to assess investigative options and use innovative approaches or methods of proof to overcome complex accounting issues related to criminal activities that can involve piecing together financial information that may be located in several venues both domestic and international. Examples of qualifying law enforcement experience include conducting criminal investigations involving federal tax and/or money laundering violations including one or more of the following: Indirect methods of proof; utilization of multiple nominees, bank accounts, and/or entities; utilization of alter ego and/or sham corporations; multiple judicial districts and/or targets; and/or other financial investigations (money laundering). Specialized experience must have included Federal Law Enforcement experience in leading and effecting Federal enforcement actions including search, seizure, and arrest warrants.

MAXIMUM ENTRY AGE: Provisions of Public Law 93-950 and Public Law 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for original appointments to a law enforcement officer position within the Federal government. The date immediately preceding your 37th birthday is the final date of referral for selection. This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336 (c) provisions and preference eligible veterans.

You must pass a medical examination prior to being appointed. This position requires moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with free motion of fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, hips, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must function sufficiently in order for applicants to perform the duties satisfactorily.

Vision: Near vision, corrected or uncorrected, must be sufficient to read Jaeger type 2 at 14 inches. Normal depth perception, peripheral vision, and the ability to distinguish shades of color-by-color plate tests are required. If you have undergone refractive surgery, you must meet Treasury approved requirements, including documentation that you have passed exam and protocol testing. The earliest the refractive surgery evaluation can be performed is: three months post Laser in Situ Keratomileusis (Lasik); six months post Photorefractive Keratectomy (PRK). Visual acuity requirements are expressed in terms of the Snellen vision test. Uncorrected distant vision must test 20/200, and corrected vision must test 20/20 in one eye, and 20/30 in the other.

Hearing: Hearing loss, as measured by an audiometer, must not exceed 30 decibels (A.S.A. or equivalent I.S.O.) in either ear in the 500, 1000, and 2000 Hz ranges. You must be able to hear the whispered voice at 15 feet with each ear without the use of a hearing aid.

Other Medical Requirements: You must possess emotional and mental stability. Any condition that would hinder full, efficient performance of the duties of this position or that would cause an individual to be a hazard to himself/herself or to others is disqualifying.

All the medical requirements MUST be met at the time of initial examination/test. Applicants failing to meet the medical requirements at the time of their initial examination/test will be considered ineligible for the position.

Applicants for all Criminal Investigator (Special Agent) 1811 positions must meet all GS-1811 Criminal Investigator (Special Agent) Qualification Standards, including Medical Requirements, please see http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/Standards/IORs/gs1800/1811b.htm.


1.
As a Special Agent, you will be required to routinely carry and maintain proficiency in using a firearm. Are you willing to assume this responsibility?

 Yes
 No


2.
As a Special Agent, you may be called upon to protect yourself and others. During the course of these activities, you may be required to use deadly force with a firearm. Are you willing to assume this responsibility?

 Yes
 No


3.
The Lautenberg Amendment to the Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C.922) makes it unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence to ship, transport, possess, or receive firearms or ammunition. This prohibition applies to persons convicted of such misdemeanors at any time. Unlike other provisions of the Gun Control Act, this prohibition applies to all federal, state and local government employees.

A misdemeanor crime of domestic violence is defined as one that includes the use or attempted use of physical force, or the threatened use of a deadly weapon, committed by a current or former spouse, parent or guardian of the victim, by a person with whom the victim shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabiting with or has cohabited with the victim as a spouse, parent, or guardian, or by a person similarly situated to a spouse, parent or guardian of the victim.

Do you currently have charges pending for a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence? *Do not include convictions that have been expunged, set aside, pardoned, or dismissed under federal or state law.

 Yes
 No


4.
If you responded "Yes" above, please provide the following information with respect to your charges and/or conviction:
-Court/Jurisdiction (include State & County):
-Docket/Case No.:
-Statute/Charge:
-Date of Conviction:



5.
GRADE 12 LEVEL: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Government. Specialized experience is experience in or related to investigation of criminal violations that provided the specific competencies needed to successfully perform the duties of the position. This law enforcement experience must have been acquired in investigative work related to the Accounting or Auditing of business or commercial practices of subjects investigated. Qualifying experience is law enforcement experience which demonstrates Experience with accounting and legal principles to assess investigative options and use innovative approaches or methods of proof to overcome complex accounting issues related to criminal activities that can involve piecing together financial information that may be located in several venues both domestic and international. Examples of qualifying law enforcement experience include conducting criminal investigations involving federal tax and/or money laundering violations including one or more of the following: Indirect methods of proof; utilization of multiple nominees, bank accounts, and/or entities; utilization of alter ego and/or sham corporations; multiple judicial districts and/or targets; and/or other financial investigations (money laundering). Specialized experience must have included Federal Law Enforcement experience in leading and effecting Federal enforcement actions including search, seizure, and arrest warrants.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience.


6.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?
 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙