Position Title
Registered Nurse - Only for Current, Permanent Employees of VA North Texas Health Care System
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12949531-26-JMS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to Dec 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This announcement is an internal announcement only open to current permanent employees of the VA North Texas Health Care System.

This Open and Continuous Announcement (OCA) is established to enable Registered Nurses to communicate their desire to be reassigned to other RN positions within the VA North Texas Health Care System. To keep the applicant pool current, applications expire every 90 days. Applicants to this OCA should update their application every 90 days to continue to be considered for internal positions.

Applying to this OCA does not replace the process of applying to individual announcements that officially posted on USAJobs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I am a current, permanent employee of the VA North Texas Health Care System.
 Yes
 No


2.
I understand to remain active in this announcement, I must update my application package every 90 days.
 Yes
 No


In order to qualify for this position as a Nurse, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements. Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until the education requirements are met. Applicants that meet the education requirement but do not possess a nurse registration yet may be hired at the entry step of the grade and level applicable to the completed nursing education as a Graduate Nurse Technician on a 120-day temporary appointment while actively pursuing licensure.


3.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


4.
Education: All Registered Nurses must be a Graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant: The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) or The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE); OR
Individuals attending a master's level bridge program in nursing who have completed coursework equivalent to a bachelor's level degree in Nursing may have opportunity to become registered as a nurse with a state licensing board prior to completion of the bridge program. Upon achievement of a State license, the individual may be appointed on temporary basis and later converted to a permanent appointment upon successful completion and graduation from the bridge program; OR
In cases of graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing, possession of a current, full, active, and unrestricted registration will meet the requirement for graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant an appointment as a Nurse who has completed an associated degree/entry level Nursing education program. Credit for foreign nursing education higher that associate degree/entry level requires a formal degree equivalency validation from a recognized equivalency evaluation accepted by VA such as International Consultants of Delaware (ICD).

Do you meet the above requirements?
 Yes, I meet the education requirement or am a current VHA nurse that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No
 No, I am pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.


5.
Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your RN education.
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.)
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date)


6.
License: Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted registration as a registered nurse in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No
 No, I am pending RN registration.


7.
License Information: Provide the following information regarding your RN licensure. If you are not licensed yet, indicate the expected date.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


The following Scope, Education and Dimension criteria must be met in determining the grade assignment of candidates, and if appropriate, the level within a grade. 
Applicants pending completion of the degree requirements that meet the other grade-level requirements should select "Yes" as they maybe tentatively selected, but may not be hired until their degree is conferred.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Nurse I, Level 1 Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Delivers fundamental, knowledge-based care to assigned clients while developing technical competencies.
(b) Education: An Associate Degree (ADN) or Diploma in Nursing, with no additional professional nursing required.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse I, Level 1 are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Knowledge of professional nursing practice and the ability to apply the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning implementation and evaluation) with close supervision.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Knowledge of Veteran/patient driven care, patient experience, satisfaction, and safety.
Leadership. Communicates, collaborates, and utilizes leadership principles to perform as an effective member of the interprofessional team.
Professional Development. Incorporates educational resources/opportunities and self-evaluation for professional growth.
Evidence-Based Practice/Research. Awareness of evidence-based practice/research to improve quality of care and resource utilization.
 Yes
 No


9.
Nurse I, Level 2 Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Demonstrates integration of biopsychosocial concepts, cognitive skills, and technically competent practice in providing care to clients with basic or complex.
(b) Education: An ADN or Diploma in Nursing AND 1 year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse I, Level 1 OR a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) with no additional professional nursing experience required.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse I, Level 2 are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Delivers professional practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning implementation and evaluation) with general supervision.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Provides Veteran/patient driven care by optimizing the patient experience, satisfaction and/or safety for assigned patients.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective member of the interprofessional team, demonstrating progression from team member to team leader.
Professional Development. Seeks knowledge and learning opportunities that support current nursing practice and self-evaluation.
Evidence-Based Practice/Research. Applies evidence-based practice/research, considering patient preferences to improve quality of care and resource utilization for assigned patients.
 Yes
 No


10.
Nurse I, Level 3 Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Demonstrates proficiency in practice based on conscious and deliberate planning. Self-directed in goal setting for managing complex client situations.
(b) Education: An ADN or Diploma in Nursing AND 2 years of professional nursing experience in which one year is equivalent to Nurse I, Level 2; OR a BSN and 1 year of professional nursing experience equivalent to the Nurse I, Level 2; OR a Master's degree in nursing (MSN) and no additional professional nursing experience; OR a Master's degree in a *related field with a BSN and no additional professional nursing experience. *Note: Foreign education programs/degrees are not creditable as related degrees.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse I, Level 3 are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Delivers self-directed, professional nursing practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning implementation and evaluation) for complex patients based on conscious and deliberate planning with occasional supervision.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Provides and directs others in Veteran/patient driven care by optimizing the patient experience, satisfaction and/or safety for a team of patients.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective member of the interprofessional team, demonstrating leadership responsibilities such as team leader/charge nurse.
Professional Development. Shares knowledge and learning opportunities that enhance current nursing practice and self-evaluation for self and others on the team.
Evidence-Based Practice/Research. Applies evidence-based practice/research considering patient preferences, to improve quality of care and resource utilization, participating in established improvement activities.
 Yes
 No


11.
Nurse II Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Demonstrates leadership in delivering and improving holistic care through collaborative strategies with others.
(b) Education: A BSN with 2 years of professional nursing equivalent to Nurse I, Level 3; OR an MSN with one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse I, Level 3; OR a Master's degree in a *related field with a BSN and one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse I, Level 3; OR a Doctoral degree in Nursing with no professional nursing experience; OR a Doctoral degree in a *related field with a BSN with no additional professional nursing experience. *Note: Foreign education programs/degrees are not creditable as related degrees.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse II are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Leads professional practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning, implementation, and evaluation) to improve evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes for an identified patient population and/or specialized areas within immediate practice setting.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Improves Veteran/patient driven care by optimizing the patient experience, satisfaction and/or safety for the immediate practice setting.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective leader of the interprofessional team, at the expert level, with improved evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes in the immediate practice setting.
Professional Development. Expands knowledge base and practice evaluation through mentoring, precepting and/or teaching to improve outcomes in the immediate practice setting.
Evidence Based Practice/Research. Leads the integration of evidence-based practice/research with clinical expertise to improve quality of care and resource utilization with improved outcomes for the immediate practice setting.
 Yes
 No


12.
Nurse III Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Executes position responsibilities that demonstrate leadership, experience, and creative approaches to management of complex client care beyond the immediate practice setting.
(b) Educations: MSN and 2 years of specialized nursing experience, one of which is equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III; OR a Master's degree in related field with BSN and two years of specialized nursing experience, one of which is equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III; OR a Doctoral degree in Nursing with and one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III; OR a Doctoral degree in a *related field with a BSN and one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III. *Note: Foreign education programs/degrees are not creditable as related degrees.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse III must meet ALL the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Demonstrates expertise in professional practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning, implementation, and evaluation) with improved evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Leads initiatives to improve Veteran/patient experience. Satisfaction and/or safety beyond the immediate practice setting.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective leader of the interprofessional team, at the expert level, with improved evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
Professional Development. Enhances knowledge base and practice evaluation, at the expert level, with improved outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
Evidence Based Practice/Research. Leads the identification and integration of evidence-based practice/research with clinical expertise to improve quality of care and resource utilization at the expert level with improved outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
 Yes
 No


The following section includes all the North Texas VA Health Care System areas where Bargaining Unit Registered Nurses are employed. Please review the entire list and select all areas and locations where you would want to be considered for placement prior to a Non-Competitive applicant selection being considered and selected.

To keep the applicant pool current, applications expire every 90 days. Applicants to this OCA should update their application every 90 days to continue to be considered for internal positions. You may update this list at any time.

Applying to this OCA does not replace the process of applying to individual announcements that officially posted on USAJobs.


13.
Acute Care Registered Nurse:

 A. 4C 100 Ortho, Neuro, Vascular Tele/Med/Surg
 B. 4C 200 Ortho, Neuro, Vascular Tele/Med/Surg
 C. 6C 100 Tele/Med/Surg
 D. 6C 200 Tele/Med/Surg
 E. 6C 400 Mental Health, Tele/Med/Surg
 F. 6C 400 Mental Health, Tele/Med/Surg
 G. 7C 100 Oncology, Tele/Med/Surg
 H. 7C 200 Ventilator, Tele/Med/Surg
 I. 7C 400 Bariatric, Tele/Med/Surg
 J. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 K. No interest currently


14.
Chief Nursing Office:

 A. RN-Magnet Coordinator
 B. RN-Workforce Coordinator
 C. RN- Float Pool
 D. RN- Emergency Operations
 E. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 F. No interest currently


15.
Critical Care Registered Nurse:

 A. 5C-400 (Telemetry unit)
 B. 5A Telemetry/5A Telemetry Step Down Unit (SDU)
 C. Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU)
 D. Surgical/ Thoracic Intensive Care Units (SICU/TICU)
 E. ICU Nurse Trainer
 F. System Admin & Educ Liaison for ICU EMR
 G. Critical Care Unit (CCU)
 H. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 I. No Interest currently


16.
Geriatrics & Extended Care(GEC) Registered Nurse:

 A. CLC A-Short Stay Rehab
 B. CLC B-Restorative & Rehab
 C. CLC C-Hospice
 D. Dallas GEC Minimum Data Set (MDS)
 E. Dallas GEC Restorative Care
 F. Dallas RN-Resident Assessment Instrument-Minimum Data Set (RAI-MDS) Coordinator
 G. Bonham CLC B-Long Term
 H. Bonham CLC DSCU-Dementia Specialty Care Unit
 I. Bonham CLC C RN-Long Term & Hospice
 J. Bonham RN-Resident Assessment Instrument-Minimum Data Set (RAI-MDS) Coordinator
 K. Bonham GEC Restorative Care
 L. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 M. No Interest currently


17.
Hospital Education Registered Nurse:

 A. Registered Nurse
 B. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 C. No interest currently


18.
Infection Prevention & Control(IPC) Registered Nurse:

 A. Infection Prevention Coordinator
 B. Multi Drug Resistant Organism (MDRO) Coordinator
 C. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 D. No interest currently


19.
Mental Health Registered Nurse:

 A. Inpatient Mental Health unit (2D200/2D300)
 B. Inpatient Acute Care/Mental Health unit
 C. Bonham Clinic RN
 D. Dallas Clinic RN
 E. Denton Clinic RN
 F. Fort Worth Clinic RN
 G. Garland Clinic RN
 H. Grand Prairie Clinic RN
 I. Plano Clinic RN
 J. Tyler Clinic RN
 K. Nurse Trainer/Educator/QSV
 L. Nurse Navigator
 M. Intensive Community Mental Health Recovery
 N. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 O. No interest currently


20.
Hospital Chief of Staff:

 A. RN-Assistant Women Veterans Program Manager
 B. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 C. No interest currently


21.
Health Informatics Office Registered Nurse:

 A. RN-Nursing Informaticist/Data Specialist
 B. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 C. No interest currently


22.
Nuclear Medicine Registered Nurse:

 A. Nurse Navigator Cancer Care
 B. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 C. No interest currently


23.
Nursing Education

 A. Nursing Professional Development Educator
 B. Academia Faculty
 C. VA Nursing Academic Partners (VANAP)
 D. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 E. No interest currently


24.
Nursing Research:

 A. Clinical Nurse Leader (CNL)
 B. Informatics/ADPAC
 C. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 D. No interest currently


25.
Outpatient PACT Registered Nurse:

 A. Bonham Clinic
 B. Dallas Clinic
 C. Fort Worth Clinic
 D. Grand Prairie Clinic
 E. Polk St. Clinic
 F. Garland Clinic
 G. Plano Clinic
 H. Tyler Clinic
 I. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 J. No interest currently


26.
Outpatient Procedural Registered Nurse:

 A. Dialysis
 G. Dialysis Cancer Navigator
 H. Dermatology Clinic-Garland
 I. Sleep Clinic
 J. Procedural Nurse GI Lab - Fort Worth
 K. Procedural Nurse GI Lab - Dallas
 L. Clinic Nurse GI Lab-Dallas
 M. GI Lab Case Manager
 N. Liver Clinic
 O. Liver Case Manager
 P. Liver Transplant Case Manager
 Q. Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Case Manager
 R. Hematology/Oncology Clinic
 S. Hematology/Oncology Infusion Nurse
 T. Pain Clinic
 U. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R) Clinic
 V. Gynecology Clinic
 W. Urology Clinic
 X. Urology Cancer Navigator
 Y. Gastrointestinal Cancer Navigator Fort Worth or Dallas
 Z. Ophthalmology Clinic
 AA. Neuro Clinic
 AB. Pulmonary Clinic
 AC. Referral Coordination Team
 AD. Sleep Lab
 AE. Fort Worth GI Lab
 B. Diabetes Clinic
 C. Rheumatology Clinic
 D. Infectious Disease Clinic
 E. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 F. No interest currently


27.
Outpatient Specialty Registered Nurse:

 A. Fort Worth - Ophthalmology Clinic
 B. Dallas - Vaccine Clinic (Immunization and Triage)
 C. Dallas - Community Care Home Telehealth (Telephone Triage)
 D. Dallas - Rheumatology Clinic (Pact and Triage)
 E. Dallas - Pulmonology Clinic (Pact and Triage)
 F. Dallas - Endocrinology Clinic (Pact and Triage)
 G. Dallas - Neurology Clinic (Pact and Triage)
 H. Dallas - Neurology Case Manager (Case Management)
 I. Dallas - Endocrinology Case Manager (Case Management)
 J. Dallas - Employee Health Unit (Pact and Telehealth Triage)
 K. Bonham - Domiciliary Inpatient Rehab Clinic RN
 L. Bonham - Occupational Health
 M. Dallas - Occupational Health
 N. Fort Worth - Occupational Health
 O. 5 North-Substance Abuse
 P. Rehab Resident Treatment Unit
 Q. Domiciliary Care Homeless Veterans
 R. Bonham Specialty Clinic
 S. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 T. No interest currently


28.
Patient Administrative Service:

 A. Garland - Community Care (Case Management)
 B. Dallas - Utilization Management (Case Management)
 C. Dallas - Inpatient Case Manager (Case Management)
 D. Dallas - Community Health Care (Case Management)
 E. Dallas - Patient Flow (Bed assignment Coordinator)
 F. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 G. No interest currently


29.
Patient Flow:

 A. ED/Critical Decision Unit
 B. Dallas - House Supervisor Nurse
 C. ED/Education Trainer
 D. ED/Case Manager
 E. Bonham House Supervisor Nurse
 F. Garland House Supervisor Nurse
 G. ED/Dedicated Charge Nurse
 H. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 I. No interest currently


30.
Perioperative:

 A. Same Day Procedure (SDP)
 B. Interventional Radiology (IR)
 C. Operating Room (OR)
 D. Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU)
 E. IV Team/PICC
 F. OR Implant Coordinator
 G. General Surgery Clinic
 H. Ear, Nose & Throat Clinic (ENT)
 I. Plastic Surgery Clinic
 J. Dallas - Orthopedic Clinic
 K. Fort Worth - Orthopedic Clinic
 L. Vascular Surgery Clinic
 M. Cardio Thoracic Clinic
 N. Neurosurgery Clinic
 O. Podiatry Clinic
 P. Surgical Clinic
 Q. Dallas- Wound Care
 R. Bonham- Wound Care
 S. Invasive Cardiology EP/Cath Lab
 T. Non-Invasive Cardiology
 U. Other position within this group, but not specified above


31.
Quality Patient Safety:

 A. Quality Consultants
 B. Patient Safety Specialist
 C. High Reliability Organization
 D. Peer Review
 E. Risk Management
 F. EPRP
 G. Systems Redesign HSS
 H. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 I. No interest currently


32.
Radiation Therapy

 A. Case Manager-Radiation Oncology
 B. Case Manager-Radiation Therapy
 C. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 D. No interest currently


33.
Social Work Registered Nurse

 A. Dallas - Transition Care Management Case Manager
 B. Dallas - Caregiver Support Program Case Manager
 C. Fort Worth - Caregiver Support Program Case Manager
 D. Bonham - Caregiver Support Program Case Manager
 E. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 F. No interest currently


34.
Special Populations

 A. Spinal Cord Injury-SCI Inpatient
 B. Spinal Cord Injury-Home Care
 C. Spinal Cord Injury-Clinic
 D. Spinal Cord Injury-SCI/PACT Clinic
 E. Spinal Cord Injury-Wound Care
 F. Spinal Cord Injury-Case Manager
 G. Spinal Cord Injury-Nurse Trainer
 H. Community Nursing Home (CNH) Case Manager
 I. Home Based Primary Care (HBPC) Case Manager
 J. Bonham Home Based Primary Care
 K. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 L. No Interest currently


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
 
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙