Position Title
Supervisory Budget Analyst
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
26-FS-12911013-MPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Hyattsville, MD
 C. Parkersburg, WV


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


7.
When The Bureau of Fiscal Service completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14 is defined as one year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent that is directly related to the position and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes the following:
- Leading a team of financial analysts including planning, directing, coordinating and reviewing their work on program operations; AND
- Making recommendations on financial management issues; AND
- Assisting in the development of financial policies; AND
- Experience preparing and reviewing a fiscal year budget for submission.


1.
 For the GS-14, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.


2.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience/education so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
I have performed the following tasks:
 A. Met with senior officials to present policy positions on financial and budgetary policy matters.
 B. Participated in implementing policy changes and modified processes in response to changing policies and management assessments.
 C. Analyzed and interpreted policy guidance contained in legislation, regulations, guidelines, and policy directives.
 D. Preparation, submission, and presentation of annual budget submissions.
 E. None of the above.


4.
Which statement best describes your experience in a professional, high-energy environment where deadlines may be short and guidance minimal?
 I interpret guidance, create a timeline to meet budget submission deadlines and manage and coordinate the process proficiently.
 I evaluate one major program, and coordinate with other parts of the organization to plan, schedule and execute the necessary actions for effective program management.
 I work on multiple programs and budgets, evaluate goals, risks and strategies for them, and coordinate with other parts of the organization to plan, schedule and execute the necessary actions for effective management.
 None of the above.


5.
Which statement best describes your experience formulating, justifying and presenting a Department or Bureaus Federal budget.
 I have compiled narrative budget justifications from program offices for higher management review.
 I have advised program officials and budget staff on the necessity for and type of budgetary justifications needed to meet the agency goals.
 I have prepared, defended, and presented budget requests to higher management with recommendations for funding.
 I have performed numerical calculations and analyzed funding amounts for a Department or Bureau's budget.
 None of the above.


6.
Please check all of the following that apply to your experience with the budget process.
 A. I have advised program officials concerning obligations, expenditures, and availability of funds.
 B. I have performed cost-benefit analysis in support of programmatic or budgetary initiatives.
 C. I have used automated databases to run reports, prepare data summaries for inclusion in analytical budget reports, briefings or fact sheets.
 D. I have provided budgetary information with recommendations to upper management under deadlines and maintained attention to detail under pressure.
 E. I have not performed any of the listed duties.


7.
Please select the following budget related tasks with which you have experience:
 A. Interpreting and applying budget regulations.
 B. Tracking obligations and expenses and assessing trends.
 C. Advising program officials concerning obligations, expenditures and availability of funds.
 D. Utilizing automated databases to prepare data summaries for inclusion in analytical budget reports, briefings or fact sheets.
 E. Preparing recurring reports on budget execution.
 F. None of the above.


8.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience performing work that involved planning, developing and carrying out vital programs that are essential to the mission of an agency or that affect large numbers of people on a long-term or continuing basis.
 I have successfully planned, developed, monitored and coordinated the formulation and/or execution of the budget or financial management program of a Department or Bureau.
 I have managed small and large projects staying within budget and meeting deadlines.
 I have developed and monitored the implementation of the budgetary or financial management program of a field division or office.
 None of the above.


9.
 Please choose one statement that most accurately describes your experience communicating budget and performance measurement information.
 I have experience discussing with customers how budgets and performance measures are developed.
 I have routinely demonstrated and reported how budgets are formulated, justified and funding is executed using budget terminology with customers or stakeholders.
 I have experience discussing some aspects of the budget process to include budget formulation, budget execution and performance metrics with my supervisor.
 None of the above.


10.
 I have routinely and successfully applied the following interpersonal communication skills at work.
 A. Facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties when cooperation was needed in order to meet a program objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques in order to improve operations.
 D. Diffused confrontational contact with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 E. None of the above.


11.
Please indicate which of the following types of written products you have produced that were presented to senior management without major technical revision(s).
 A. Responses to Departmental, OMB and Congressional inquiries
 B. Policy statements and guidance
 C. Recommendations for solutions to policy or reporting problems
 D. Budget justifications, financial forecasts and impact analysis
 E. Analysis that consolidates input from a number of different sources (including contradictory viewpoints)
 F. Presentations or briefing materials
 G. None of the above.


12.
Select the response(s) that reflect the phases of a budget process you have managed.
 A. Planning
 B. Formulating
 C. Presenting
 D. Executing
 E. Evaluating
 F. None of the above.


13.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience leading, supervising and motivating a diverse group of subject matter experts.
 I have supervisory experience, including providing technical expertise and direction on multi-program budgets of size and complexity, making budget assignments, and ensuring work meets Federal agency standards.
 I have had minimal training or experience relevant to leading, supervising and motivating a diverse group of subject matter experts.
 I have experience acting as a team leader and have had the responsibility for providing technical instruction on budget reports to lower-graded specialists reviewing working documents for accuracy.
 I have supervisory experience providing technical guidance on budget planning, formulation, and/or execution activities and managing work assignments and reviewing findings for accuracy.
 None of the above.


14.
 Select all of the following activities with which you have experience.
 A. Establish guidelines and performance expectations for staff members.
 B. Provide leadership and career development of subordinate employees, and consult with them on career and developmental needs.
 C. Manage and plan the activities of a budget office to comply with procurement laws and regulations.
 D. Assign and review work and projects to subordinates.
 E. Evaluate the performance of subordinate employees.
 F. Present financial information and budget information to senior leadership
 G. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙