Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12966217-AR-26-075 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 to CW4.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 to CW4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, and lead the work of others in fields directly related the repair function of this occupational series. Must have the ability to perform administrative functions; to read and interpret a variety of technical publications used in the repair of supported equipment. The ability to provide guidance to others in work related directly to this occupational series.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess 36 months of experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please describe your experience planning the use of subordinate workers, equipment, facilities, and materials on a week-to-week or month-to-month basis. In your response, provide a specific example detailing how you establish deadlines, priorities, and work sequences. Additionally, explain how you coordinate with supporting work functions and successfully redirect resources to accomplish unanticipated or emergency work.


4.
Detail your experience analyzing workload data and participating in the planning of future staffing needs, estimates, and projected work schedules. Provide a specific example of how you have assisted in quarterly funding distribution and made decisions to prioritize and allocate funding based on readiness, training, and mobilization requirements for supported units.


5.
Describe a situation where you were responsible for directing daily work operations and assigning tasks based on readiness requirements. How do you investigate and resolve work-related problems, such as excessive costs, low productivity, or maintenance backlogs? Please include how you implement quality control programs and ensure all necessary repair parts, tools, and specialized equipment are available to meet production standards without exceeding expenditure limits.


6.
Outline your experience performing administrative and direct supervisory duties over a team. Provide examples of your experience in determining subordinate training needs, setting performance standards, conducting formal appraisals, and establishing overall leave schedules. Furthermore, explain how you actively enforce safety and housekeeping regulations, including the proper use of personal protective equipment (PPE).


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙