Position Title
Data Analytics Specialist (Audit) - Contracts & Supply Management
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-26-150B-13032646-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Carol Stream, IL
 C. Bethesda, MD
 D. Arlington, VA


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Eligibility Requirement - U.S. Public Only

 
This announcement is only open to the U.S. Public
All others are ineligible for this announcement and will not be considered

Important Note - Internal Employees: USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employees are not eligible, will not be considered on this announcement, and must apply to announcement #: 13032645

Do you meet the eligibility requirement for this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education/Experience Requirement (0511 Auditor Series)


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.

Refer to the following list of acceptable related degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Statistics, Mathematics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to: Data Science/Analytics, Computer Science, Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a degree in auditing or a related field from the provided list, such as accounting, business administration, finance, or public administration from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in performance auditing or an equivalent combination of auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) certification obtained through written examination, or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional (Full-Time) Data Analytics Experience (Audit) - Qualification Requirement:


The Auditor Specialist Data Analytics requires the following minimum specialized experience qualification:
Four (4) years of professional, full-time experience conducting performance audits, evaluations, or similar oversight work performed in accordance with GAGAS at an OIG or similar audit organization. Experience must include applying specialized data analytics methods and tools to support audits, including statistical testing, visualization, and anomaly detection.

Please select which matches your level of experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 More than four (4) years but less than five (5) years of professional, full-time experience conducting performance audits, evaluations, or similar oversight work performed in accordance with GAGAS at an OIG or similar audit organization. My experience includes applying specialized data analytics methods and tools to support audits, including statistical testing, visualization, and anomaly detection. My submitted resume reflects how, when and where I have gained this experience.
 At least five (5) years of professional, full-time experience conducting performance audits, evaluations, or similar oversight work performed in accordance with GAGAS at an OIG or similar audit organization. My experience includes applying specialized data analytics methods and tools to support audits, including statistical testing, visualization, and anomaly detection. My submitted resume reflects how, when and where I have gained this experience.
 I do not meet the data analytics in audit experience requirements described in the announcement.
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional, full-time experience conducting performance audits, evaluations, or similar oversight work performed in accordance with GAGAS at an OIG or similar audit organization. My experience includes applying specialized data analytics methods and tools to support audits, including statistical testing, visualization, and anomaly detection. My submitted resume reflects how, when and where I have gained this experience.


4.
Data Analytics Applications Experience Requirement:


Which data analytics applications, technologies, and resources have you used in performing quantitative or audit-related analysis? Your resume must demonstrate when, where, and how these tools were used.

Please select all that apply.
 A. R
 B. Python
 C. SQL/Teradata
 D. ACL
 E. Databricks
 F. Power BI
 G. Oracle BI Publisher
 H. SAS
 I. Excel/Power Query
 J. None of the above


5.
Audit Data Analytics Requirement:

Describe how you have applied a data analytics application, resource, or tool in a real analytical, audit, or evaluation scenario. Explain 1. what application you used, 2. the dataset, audit project, and environment where you applied it, 3. how you conducted the analysis, and 4. what results or insights were achieved.


6.
Professional Certification or License (Not Required)


Do you have a professional certification or license, such as a CPA, CFE, CIA, CISA, etc.?


Select the option that best matches your current certification status.
 I have a professional certification and will submit my certification with my application.
 I do not have an active certification or license.


7.
In-Office Requirement:


The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the office location for which you are selected.

The following locations are available for consideration:
Arlington, VA
Bethesda, MD
Carol Stream, IL
Denver, CO


Select the location(s) that you are interested in and would be able to report to during core business hours.
 B. Bethesda, MD
 C. Carol Stream, IL
 D. Denver, CO
 E. I am not available or interested in the listed duty station locations.
 A. Arlington, VA


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation


This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct corresponding document type.

For example:
Cover Letter must be uploaded under the Cover Letter document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Cover Letter
Transcripts
Performance Appraisal - Dated within the prior 15 months with ratings and comments. Note: A Certification, License, or Form 50 is not an acceptable alternative to this requirement. This is required, regardless of federal, public, or private employment. See announcement for exception instructions.
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Certification of Accuracy:
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙