Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12935519-26-DC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Occupational Therapist are prescribed by the Occupational Therapist - GS-0631 - Qualification Standard (https://www.va.gov/OHRM/QualificationStandards/HT38/0631-OccupationalTherapist.pdf) (formerly VA Handbook 5005/127, Part II, Appendix G14). To qualify for appointment as a Occupational Therapist in VHA, all applicants must meet the following.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship Requirement: Applicants must be a citizen of the United States by birth or naturalized.


Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Education and/or Experience - Please select your highest level of education and experience from the options below.
(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. -OR-
(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.-OR-
(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy

PLEASE NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.

Foreign Graduates - Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred.

Do you meet the education and/or experience requirements as indicated above?

 I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I have a Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I am a Foreign Graduate and possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license.
 I do not possess the required education and or experience required for this position.


3.
Do you possess a current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) Certification as an Occupational Therapist? (Certification MUST be Submitted)

 Yes, I am certified as an OT by the NBCOT
 No, I am NOT certified as an OT by NBCOT, and do NOT intend to seek certification.


4.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license, to practice Occupational Therapy (OT) in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia? (License MUST be submitted)

 Yes, I am fully licensed to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia
 No, I am NOT fully licensed and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Select the statements below that best describe your ability to meet the requirements for a Occupational Therapist position at the GS-9/11/12 levels. Please refer to the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.


5.
GS-12 Experience, Education, AND Licensure: In addition to the Basic Requirements, an Occupational Therapist at the full performance GS-12 level MUST be certified, licensed, AND possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level directly related to the position being filled. In addition  candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: at the GS 11 level.

(a) Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
(b) Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
(c) Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
(d) Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
(e) Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
(f) Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
(g) Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.]


Do you possess ALL the GS-12 Grade Requirements for Experience, Education, AND Licensure?
 Yes, I am certified AND fully licensed as an OT and possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade.
 No, I do NOT possess ALL the required experience, education, or licensure to be appointed at the GS-12 level.


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙