Position Title
Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12831258-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 10, 2025 to Tuesday, November 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist. The following questionnaire is used to help determine your eligibility and qualifications. Please answer the following questions honestly and be sure to review your answers prior to submitting.

Creditable Experience: Experience is only creditable if credentialed as a Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) or RRT, the experience is directly related to the position being filled. Experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA) associated with current practice in paid employment as a CRT or RRT.


Please select the most appropriate response(s) regarding meeting the basic requirement for the GS-0601 Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapists series.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: RTs/RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Citizenship: Citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, of this part. See 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a) for more information.

Are you a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education: Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor. (If your school program was accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating). A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.

Please upload unofficial or official transcripts (Required)
 Yes
 No


4.
License: Do you possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT). (You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application).
 Yes
 No


5.
Please provide the following information regarding your state(s) license(s) (active and expired): license type, license number, state issued, original issuance date and date of expiration. (You must submit a copy of your licensure(s) with your application).


5a.
License type:
License number:
State issued:
Original issuance date and date of expiration:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Credential: Do you possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT)? (You must submit a copy of your credential(s) with your application).
 Yes
 No


7.
Please provide the following information regarding your credential(s) from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) (active and expired): type, date of original issuance, date of expiration. (You must submit a copy of your credential(s) with your application).


7a.
Credential type:
Date of original issuance:
Date of expiration:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
GS-13 Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist Experience Requirement
Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must:

i. Have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. It is highly desirable that the candidate possess certification in one or more functional specialties.
ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience listed above you must also fully meet the KSA's listed in the qualification section of this announcement.

Do you meet the grade requirements of the GS-13 Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙