Position Title
Geodesist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NOS ONGS-26-12880786-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 09, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boulder, CO
 B. Silver Spring, MD
 C. Chesapeake, VA
 D. Corbin, VA
 E. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Geodesy Series, 1372 because I have:

 A degree in geodesy or 30 semester hours in any combination of geodesy, mathematics, physics, astronomy, engineering science, surveying, geodetic surveying, photogrammetry, or geophysics. The course work must have included differential and integral calculus.
 A combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Geodesy Series, 1372.


2.
ZP-2: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Geodesist, ZP-1372-2 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-1) or GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in geodetic or geospatial activities; and Analyzing and evaluating geodetic or geospatial survey data.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I meet the criteria for a superior academic achievement demonstrated by a bachelor degree from an accredited college or university with one of the following: A grade point average (GPA) of 2.9 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study; A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. (Note: It is your responsibility to ensure your application clearly states how you meet one of these provisions.)
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
ZP-3: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Geodesist, ZP-1372-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Using geodetic or geospatial survey instrumentation or equipment to analyze and evaluate data; Maintaining or enhancing geodetic or geospatial survey software or equipment for data collection or modeling; and Preparing and presenting geodetic reports or information to internal or external stakeholders.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Assessment 2
1.
What is the primary purpose of a geodetic reference framework?

 To archive raw observation files
 To provide common, consistent coordinates for positioning and mapping
 To control satellite operations
 To manage surveying equipment


2.
In a least-squares adjustment, observations are adjusted in order to:

 Match previously published values exactly
 Balance measurement errors across all observations
 Eliminate all blunders
 Increase the number of usable observations


3.
Which activity is most closely associated with quality control of geodetic observation data?
 Reviewing observation files and metadata for completeness and consistency
 Comparing final coordinates only to expected values
 Increasing observation weights to improve results
 Removing measurements that differ from the mean


4.
Which part of the GNSS signal path can introduce delays that affect positioning accuracy?

 Receiver display electronics
 The atmosphere
 Data storage hardware
 Satellite identification codes


5.
Why is routine testing of geodetic data-processing software important?
 To reduce the number of required observations to a minimum value to accomplish the work
 To ensure the accuracy, reliability, and validity of high-precision surveying and positioning
 To improve satellite signal strength
 To simplify field survey procedures


6.
When planning a geodetic survey, what factor should most strongly guide the choice of methods and equipment?

 Availability of the newest technology
 Required accuracy of the final results
 Expected project duration
 Consistency with previous surveys


7.
Which combination of equipment is essential for collecting GNSS survey data?

 Optical level and leveling rod
 GNSS receiver and antenna
 Total station and prism
 Compass and measuring tape


8.
Which site characteristic most improves the quality of GNSS observations?
 Easy physical access
 Nearby structures for mounting equipment
 Clear sky visibility with minimal obstructions
 Proximity to other survey marks


9.
Geodesy is primarily concerned with:

 Designing navigation satellites
 Measuring and understanding the Earth’s shape and orientation in space, along with their temporal changes
 Producing cartographic products
 Monitoring environmental change


10.
Why is it important to report measurement uncertainty when presenting geodetic results?
 To make results appear more sophisticated
 To communicate the reliability, precision, and quality of spatial data
 To replace quality-control procedures
 To ensure agreement with other studies


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙