Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (INFOSEC)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
USDA-OIG-DHA-12964293-BTG Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Oakland, CA
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Chicago, IL
 D. Kansas City, MO
 E. Dallas, TX
 F. Temple, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Appraisal must be included in Applicant's submission. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Please respond to the following questions. Any experience claimed in response to the questions MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide supporting documentation may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
For all Information Technology positions applicants must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Do you have experience demonstrating the four required IT-related competencies?

 Yes, I have experience demonstrating the four required competencies described above.
 No, I do not have experience demonstrating the four required competencies described above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-12: Candidates must meet one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service or comparable experience not gained through federal service. For this position, specialized experience is defined as experience conducting audits and inspections of an agency's information systems nationwide and specializes in technical IT and cybersecurity evaluations of information system security programs, policies, procedures and tools, particularly those that ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an agency's systems, networks, and data (e.g., government-owned servers, contractor-owned systems run on behalf of the government, personally identifiable information).
Please select one response from the choices shown below that corresponds to the level of specialized experience you fully possess.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience not gained through federal service conducting audits and inspections of an agency?s information systems nationwide and specializes in technical IT and cybersecurity evaluations of information system security programs, policies, procedures and tools, particularly those that ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an agency?s systems, networks, and data (e.g., government-owned servers, contractor-owned systems run on behalf of the government, personally identifiable information).
 I do not have the experience described in the above statement at this time.


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: Candidates must meet one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service or comparable experience not gained through federal service. For this position, specialized experience is defined as mastery knowledge of, and skill in applying, advanced IT security principles, concepts, methods, standards, and practices sufficient to develop and interpret policies, procedures, and strategies governing the planning and delivery of services throughout the agency.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience not gained through federal service displaying mastery knowledge of, and skill in applying, advanced IT security principles, concepts, methods, standards, and practices sufficient to develop and interpret policies, procedures, and strategies governing the planning and delivery of services throughout the agency.
 I do not possess the specialized experience required for this position.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙