Position Title
Contracting Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13073853 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years' work experience do you possess in a contracting position?

 I have 3 or more years documented work experience
 I have 2-3 years documented work experience
 I have 1-2 years documented work experience
 I have less than 1 year documented work experience
 I have no work experience


3.
How many years' experience do you have receiving and/or analyzing purchase requests and/or other related documents for a variety of supplies and/or services, determining the best method of procurement, selecting appropriate contract types, contract terms, pricing provisions, applicable contract clauses, acquisition methods, and/or contracting negotiations for a wide range of contractual actions?

 I have 3 or more years documented experience
 I have 2-3 years documented experience
 I have 1-2 years documented experience
 I have 1 year or less documented experience
 I have no experience


4.
How many year's experience do you have in providing non-appropriated (NAF) and/or appropriated fund (APF) acquisition evaluating bid responsiveness, contractor responsibility and contractor performance?

 I have 3 or more years experience with the above
 I have 2-3 years experience with the above
 I have 1-2 years experience with the above
 I have less than one years experience with the above
 I have no experience with the above


5.
Select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability for the following task: Develops and maintains liaisons and effective working relations with related groups and individuals, agencies, and the public.

 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.(5 points)
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙