Position Title
Supply Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12928588-26-AAK Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-05 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this Supply Technician position?

To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower level of Federal service.

Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Providing supplies and material to clinical and/or administrative areas of a facility; Scanning, bar-coding, receiving, storing and distributing supplies, instruments and other material; Pulling stock, replenishing stock and maintaining records on stock levels; monitoring expiration dates; Cleaning assigned areas in accordance with regulations and policy; Utilizing an automated system to maintain inventory; and Answering customer questions regarding supplies and materials.

 Yes
 No


2.
Have you successfully completed 4 years of education above high school in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite?

This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. (Transcript Required)

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and post high school education as described above that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position? (Transcript Required)

 Yes
 No


Selective Placement Factors (SPF) are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for the position. Applicants who do not meet the SPF are ineligible for further consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Driver's License: A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position.

NOTE: We cannot accept photographs. Therefore, please DO NOT submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?

 Yes
 No


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to Technical Competence (Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or extensive on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.).


1.
Task: Provides wards, clinics, operating rooms, secondary storage locations and other hospital facilities with supplies and material including, but not limited to, sterile and non-sterile medical supplies, instruments sets, and equipment.
A technician is preparing for a routine clinic delivery but receives an urgent "STAT" request for a sterile instrument set for the Operating Room. The most appropriate action is to:

 Prioritize and immediately deliver the sterile instrument set to the Operating Room, documenting the schedule deviation before proceeding with any routine deliveries.
 Complete the routine delivery first to keep the schedule organized before handling the STAT request.
 Deliver both orders at the same time to maximize cart efficiency.
 Ask the Operating Room staff to send a member to the warehouse for an immediate pick-up.


2.
Task: Maintains stock and primary and secondary inventory locations for all clinical and administrative services.
The primary difference in function between a Primary Inventory Area (PIA) and a Secondary Inventory Location (SIL) is:

 The PIA holds bulk reserve stock that replenishes the system; the SIL holds user-facing, accessible stock for immediate clinical use.
 The PIA is for high-cost items only; the SIL is for low-cost, disposable items.
 The PIA is inventoried annually; the SIL is inventoried daily.
 The PIA is managed by the manufacturer; the SIL is managed solely by Logistics.


3.
Task: Pulls stock and material, replenishes stock inventory, interacts with customers and maintains records on stock levels.
When pulling stock to replenish a secondary inventory location, the most critical reason to accurately maintain records of the transaction in the system is to:

 Document the physical weight of the items being moved for shipping records.
 Analyze the technician's productivity and time spent on the replenishment task.
 Create a manual paper log that can be manually reviewed by a supervisor at the end of the week.
 Ensure that consumption is accurately tracked and recorded, which is necessary for the automated system to maintain correct stock levels and trigger reorders.


4.
Task: Distributes items according to established or ad hoc requirements in computerized inventory management system.
An "ad hoc" (unscheduled) supply requirement appears in the computerized inventory system. The technician's first and most critical step in processing this distribution is to:

 Wait until the next scheduled delivery run to see if other items are needed for that location.
 Call the requesting location to confirm if they still need the item.
 Verify the item, quantity, and location in the system, pull the stock, and prepare it for immediate or priority delivery as indicated.
 Deny the request because it was not part of the standard scheduled replenishment.


5.
Task: Completes specialty cart preparation and stocking.
When preparing a specialty cart (e.g., a crash cart), the most critical technical step that demonstrates safety and attention to detail is to:

 Adhere strictly to the official checklist, ensuring every required item is present, unexpired, and has its sterile seal intact.
 Organize the supplies neatly so the cart looks professional.
 Replace only the items that appear to have been used since the last cart check.
 Ensure the cart is locked before placing it in its designated location.


The following statements pertain to Customer Service (Works and communicates with clients and customers (e.g. any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit provides, including individuals who work in your agency or in other agencies or organizations outside the Government) to satisfy their expectations. Committed to quality services.)


6.
Task: Informs clinic and ward personnel on new or changed items and supplies, current medical resources and shelf life.
When informing a clinic that a familiar supply item is being replaced by a new, standardized one, the most helpful information to provide to the clinical staff is:

 The cost savings the new item provides to the hospital.
 A simple notification that the old item is no longer available and that they must use the new one.
 The new item's stock number, any differences in its proper application/use, and its shelf life/expiration guidelines.
 The contact information for the item's manufacturer.


7.
Task: Communicates with lead or supervisor on any concerns related to supplies, equipment and procedures.
Which of the following concerns requires immediate communication to a lead or supervisor?

 A routine, non-critical supply item is on backorder for two days.
 A clinical area has requested a larger quantity of a common, non-critical supply.
 A significant inventory discrepancy is found for a critical, life-sustaining medical item that cannot be immediately located.
 The barcoding scanner is functioning slower than usual and causing minor delays.


8.
Task: Provides information to customers or external stakeholders regarding medical supplies.
A nurse asks the technician if a specific sterile dressing is appropriate for a particular type of wound. The
technician should:

 Refer the nurse to the product's official instructions or a clinical expert (like a product specialist), as providing clinical advice is outside the supply technician's scope of practice.
 Offer a personal opinion based on which dressings are most frequently ordered by that clinical area.
 State that they are only responsible for delivery and cannot answer any questions about clinical use.
 Advise the nurse to try it and see if it works for the patient.


9.
Task: Escalates complex or unresolvable issues to the supervisor or more senior staff.
A technician discovers a recurring inventory discrepancy for a high-value item that they cannot resolve after performing standard search and reconciliation procedures. The appropriate next step is to:

 Continue investigating for another week before reporting the issue.
 Make a one-time adjustment in the inventory system to match the physical count and hope the issue resolves itself.
 Document the unresolved discrepancy, along with the attempted resolution steps, and formally escalate the issue to a supervisor or senior technician.
 Ask a technician from a different department what they would do to fix the record.


10.
Task: Works with customers to resolve supply management issues including receiving requests, clarifying user requirements, explaining delays, expediting deliveries and resolving problems.
A clinical area reports that a critical supply shipment was significantly delayed, impacting patient care. The technician's best response to resolve this issue is to:

 Inform the customer that delays are common and unavoidable due to staffing issues.
 Suggest the customer submit their requests earlier next time to avoid the issue.
 Acknowledge the problem, investigate the cause of the delay, and provide the customer with an accurate explanation and a revised delivery schedule/ETA.
 Immediately blame the delay on the shipping department or an external vendor without offering a clear solution.


The following statements pertain to Technology Application (Uses machines, tools, or equipment effectively; uses computers and computer applications/systems to analyze and communicate information in the appropriate format.)


11.
Task: Works with clinical and administrative personnel regarding administrative and medical supplies.
To effectively work with clinical and administrative personnel on a recurring medical supply need, the Supply Technician should use which technology application skill?

 Being able to physically demonstrate how the supply equipment works.
 Using a personal calculator to track expenses.
 Sending a paper memo to all personnel.
 Utilizing the inventory management system to pull accurate usage reports that communicate trends and historical data to support purchasing or par level decisions.


12.
Task: Ensures data integrity of the inventory management system.
To ensure data integrity, when a technician removes an item from the shelf for distribution, the mandatory action is to:

 Write down the item number on a piece of paper to enter into the system later.
 Immediately scan or enter the transaction into the inventory management system to ensure the change in stock level is reflected in real-time.
 Tell their shift partner to enter the information for them at the end of the day.
 Assume the system will automatically know the item has been removed because of the scheduled inventory scan.


13.
Utilizes computerized systems including bar-coding and automated inventory systems for the delivery and inventory control of supplies.
The primary purpose of using a bar-coding system for inventory control during delivery is to:

 Increase accuracy and efficiency by electronically capturing item data, reducing manual entry errors and providing an audit trail.
 Create a record of how quickly the technician can move through the warehouse aisles.
 Track the physical location of the technician within the facility throughout the shift.
 Eliminate the need for physical shelf labels and bin identifiers.


14.
Task: Utilizes an automated inventory system to monitor issues and receipts in support of stock replenishment processes.
A technician monitors the automated inventory system and sees that the stock level for gloves has reached its "reorder point." This system notification indicates that:

 It is time to initiate the stock replenishment process to order more gloves before the existing supply is depleted.
 It is time to physically count the item on the shelves to verify the system's stock level before any other action is taken.
 The gloves currently in stock are about to expire.
 The hospital has completely run out of gloves and an emergency order must be placed.


15.
Task: Ensures data accuracy in the automated system.
To ensure data accuracy, if a technician notices that the physical description of an item on the shelf does not match the description in the automated system, they should:

 Change the description in the system themselves and then notify a supervisor.
 Assume the shelf label is wrong and ignore the discrepancy for now.
 Report the data discrepancy to a supervisor or Inventory Management Specialist for investigation and authorized correction.
 Remove the item from the shelf so no one uses it until the issue is resolved.


The following statements pertain to Attention to Detail (Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.)


16.
Task: Performs daily inventory using bar coding equipment on a predetermined schedule.
Performing inventory on a predetermined schedule, rather than randomly, is important because:

 It ensures that all technicians are equally sharing the workload and coverage.
 It allows the bar coding equipment to be recharged at the same time every day.
 The system is designed to only accept inventory scans at certain times of the day.
 A consistent schedule provides reliable and timely consumption data, which is essential for maintaining proper stock levels and preventing shortages.


17.
Task: Delivers supplies in a timely and accurate manner, ensures supplies and material are delivered in sterile and operational condition.
While delivering a sterile supply package, the technician notices a small water stain on the outer wrap. The action that demonstrates the highest level of attention to detail regarding sterility is to:

 Immediately consider the sterile barrier compromised, withhold the package from use, and return it to Sterile Processing (SPS) for reprocessing.
 Deliver the item but ask the receiving nurse to inspect the inner seal before accepting it.
 Use a piece of clean tape to cover the water stain and proceed with the delivery.
 Deliver the item since the water stain is small and likely did not penetrate the inner layer.


18.
Task: Ensures critical supplies are appropriately monitored and controlled.
Appropriate monitoring and control of a critical supply item (e.g., high-value or highly sensitive material) requires the technician to:

 Place the item in a location that is visually monitored by a surveillance camera.
 Store the item in a physically secured location (e.g., locked cabinet) and maintain a verifiable, auditable transaction log for every issue and receipt.
 Perform a physical count of the item once a week and report the total to the supervisor.
 Designate the item as "critical" in the system and rely on automated alarms for control.


19.
Task: Checks inventory for stock identified for recalled items and hazard alerts.
Upon receiving a hazard alert for a specific lot number of IV tubing, the technician's immediate priority demonstrating attention to detail and safety is to:

 Physically locate and immediately quarantine all stock with the affected lot number, apply a "Do Not Use" label, and update its status in the inventory system.
 Check the computerized inventory system to confirm the item is still stocked before checking the shelves.
 Wait for the Logistics Lead to confirm the recall notice before taking physical action on the shelves.
 Continue stocking the item for patient use until the full replacement shipment has been received.


20.
Task: Monitors expiration dates, rotates stock to limit outdates and removes items from use as required by outdates.
When stocking a shelf with a new shipment of medical supplies, the technician must practice proper stock rotation by:

 Placing the stock that arrived first at the front of the shelf to ensure it is used first (FIFO - First In, First Out).
 Identifying the stock with the earliest expiration date and placing it at the front of the shelf so it is consumed first (FEFO - First Expired, First Out).
 Placing the newest stock (latest expiration) at the front because it is less likely to be damaged.
 Mixing the old and new stock together to ensure a balanced inventory look.


The following statements pertain to Reasoning (Identifies rules, principles or relationships that explain facts, data or other information; analyzes information and makes correct inferences or draws accurate conclusions.)


21.
Task: Cleans assigned areas in accordance with aseptic principles as published in infection control guidelines, local Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and Joint Commission standards as scheduled.
Cleaning a supply storage area in accordance with "aseptic principles" means the technician's primary goal is to:

 Ensure the area meets the general cleanliness standards set for administrative offices.
 Use facility-approved disinfectants and standardized procedures to reduce the microbial load and prevent contamination of sterile and medical supplies.
 Use only water and paper towels to remove all visible dirt and dust from surfaces.
 Ensure all supplies are removed from the area for a full 24 hours while the area air-dries.


22.
Task: Recommends revisions in stock levels as needed to supply changes to Inventory Management Specialists.
A technician observes that a clinical area is consistently running out of a particular sterile supply before the next scheduled replenishment. The most appropriate, evidence-based recommendation to make to the Inventory Management Specialist is to:

 Recommend the clinic staff use less of the product to make the current stock last longer.
 Analyze the consumption data (ADU) and lead time, and submit a formal recommendation to increase the established PAR (Periodic Automatic Replenishment) level.
 Add a temporary, unauthorized amount of extra stock to the next delivery to resolve the immediate shortage.
 Transfer the remaining stock from a less busy clinic to the clinic experiencing the shortage.


23.
Task: Interprets policies, procedures, manual and regulations pertaining to supply/inventory management and federal acquisition systems.
A local policy states, "All sensitive clinical supplies must be stored off the floor and away from direct exposure to water or excessive heat." The technician correctly interprets this to mean that the storage solution must prevent:

 Potential damage to the integrity of the supplies caused by environmental factors (e.g., microbial growth, chemical degradation) or flooding.
 Theft of the sensitive clinical supplies by keeping them out of easy reach.
 Other staff from accidentally placing non-sensitive items in the same location.
 The item's expiration date from becoming illegible due to sun exposure.


24.
Task: Resolves differences between records and physical count of stock.
The inventory management system shows 85 units of Item X, but a physical count reveals only 80 units. Before adjusting the system record, the technician's next logical step to resolve this difference is to:

 Assume the five-unit difference is shrinkage (loss) and immediately adjust the record down to 80.
 Initiate a focused investigation by recounting, searching adjacent stock locations, and reviewing recent issue logs to identify the source of the variance.
 Immediately order five extra units on the next shipment to correct the physical count back to 85.
 Report the five-unit variance to the supervisor and wait for them to direct the fix.


25.
Task: Fills requests for items based on daily schedules of need or on an emergent basis as appropriate.
A request for an item should be designated and filled on an "emergent basis" when the supply is needed to:

 Respond to an immediate patient care situation, prevent an interruption in a critical clinical procedure, or address a safety risk.
 Restock a PAR level that has fallen below its minimum threshold.
 Satisfy a request from a high-profile department or executive office.
 Replace an item that was broken earlier in the day due to staff negligence.


26.
Task: Monitors stock usage in areas of the medical center and makes necessary adjustments.
A technician monitors stock usage and notices that a particular supply is being consistently overstocked, leading to frequent expiration and waste. The most responsible and appropriate adjustment (per standard procedure) is to:

 Instruct the clinical staff to use the expiring item more quickly before the next replenishment.
 Immediately stop ordering the item to prevent further waste until the situation is reviewed.
 Analyze the consumption data, formally document the overstocking/outdates, and recommend a PAR level reduction to the Inventory Management Specialist.
 Move the excess stock to a random, unused storage closet to free up shelf space in the main area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙