Position Title
Prosthetic Representative (Service Chief)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12833121-26-ED Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Jan 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 B. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 A. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 E. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 D. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of Specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experiences are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.



TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience and Education. 
Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team, OR,  
Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree, OR, 
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
Do you meet the experience or have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university?
 Yes
 No


1a.
If you are basing your qualifications on education, please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).



Do you meet the requirement for the language proficiency?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified. 

GS-12 Prosthetic Representative (Service Chief)

Assignments. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. At this level, the Service Chief has full responsibility for managing and supervising all aspects of prosthetic operations and is the highest-level professional position at the facility, with responsibility for the professional practice of facility prosthetic and sensory aid service staff. Assignments may include managing programs at more than one facility. The Service Chief has full management and supervisory responsibility for program management, education, human resource management and supervision, and organizational stewardship for the prosthetic program. They are responsible for all supervisory functions including recruitment and hiring. He/She approves and disapproves employee leave requests; monitors time and attendance; and ensures that all requests for hiring, promotions, awards and disciplinary actions are justified and carried out according to appropriate VA Human Resources policies and procedures. Typically, there are no subordinate supervisory prosthetic representatives at the facility level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Experience.  At least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level. Examples of equivalent experience to the next lower grade level include:
Provide oversight, administration and coordination for several services including but not limited to procurement, clinical services, customer service/reception, inventory management associated with medical, rehabilitative, and durable medical equipment devices; home durable medical equipment delivery/set up/installation; visual or hearing devices; assistive technology; and orthotics/prosthetics. The Prosthetic Representative assists with management and oversight of contract programs such as home oxygen, durable medical equipment, and eyeglasses. They are responsible for the administration of benefit programs, such as home and structural alterations, automobile adaptive equipment, and clothing allowance. The Prosthetic Representative is aware of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients to obtain specialized service programs. When non-contract products are required, the Prosthetic Representative assists the clinical team in developing appropriate justifications, to ensure access to the most clinically appropriate products and services when such as product functionality not available with contract products to ensure access to the most clinically appropriate products and services.  They provide recommendations to the treatment team regarding the development of prescriptions and provide technical assistance and guidance on planning and coordination efforts, to address complex patient medical and rehabilitative needs for equipment, services, and benefits. They develop and monitor quality improvement metrics to ensure the program is functioning in accordance with all established guidelines. They have a full working knowledge of national, VISN, and facility contracts that apply to PSAS are responsible for providing management with documentation pertaining to contract compliance issues or concerns. This includes working with clinical staff to make recommendations for improvements based on quality improvement reports. At this level, employees may serve as the lead for the prosthetic program providing oversight of specific services within PSAS. They may assist with oversight duties including making assignments, monitoring workflow, providing input on performance, resolving daily workplace issues, and maintaining efficient flow of patient care. They may provide training for PSAS staff and other medical center employees, students and/or trainees.
Do you have this required experience to qualify for the GS-12 Prosthetic Representative (Service Chief) position? (Note: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in their application and supporting documentation.)
 Yes
 No


4.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Knowledge of legal, ethical, and professional standards applicable to providing home medical equipment, rehabilitation services, home oxygen, visual or hearing impairment devices, assistive technology, or orthotics/prosthetics services.
Ability to manage, interpret, and present fiscal data (i.e. fund controls, contracts and equipment expenditure), forecast resource and equipment needs and administer an allocated budget.
Ability to manage a health care program that provides home medical equipment, rehabilitation services, home oxygen, visual or hearing impairment devices, assistive technology, orthotics, or prosthetics.
Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, including responsibility for assignment of work to be performed; assessment of competencies; evaluation of performance; selection of staff; and recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions.
Do you have the KSAs for this position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙