Position Title
Integrated Resources Program Manager
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-1538-ELMA-26-13028142-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current National Park Service (NPS) Employee (Promotional):

Are you a current career/career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2) National Park Service employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current NPS employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a lower grade level than the position being announced or lower than the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Wage System/Trade Positions) Current NPS employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a pay rate that is below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current National Park Service employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent National Park Service employee applying for competitive Promotion?
 Yes
 No


3.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Current National Park Service Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)
To claim Non-Competitive eligibility as a Current National Park Service employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
Reassignment: You currently hold the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Change to Lower Grade: You currently hold a higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential than the position being advertised.
Re-Promotion: You have previously held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current National Park Service AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current National Park Service employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 Yes
 No


5.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


6.
Are you including a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 C. 1301 - General Physical Science


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Integrated Resources Program Manager position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


Basic Requirements for the Integrated Resources Program Manager position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these basic requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your experience or education as it pertains to the basic requirements for this Social Scientist, GS-0101-12 position:
 I have a degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines, appropriate to the position (you must submit your school transcripts to receive consideration, and official transcripts will be required upon selection).
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field (you must submit your school transcripts to receive consideration, and official transcripts will be required upon selection).
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrate I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not possess the education or experience stated above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your experience or education as it pertains to the basic requirements for this Biologist, GS-0401-12 position:
 I have successfully completed a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or a related discipline appropriate to the position (you must submit your school transcripts to receive consideration, and official transcripts will be required upon selection).
 I have a combination of education and experience in courses related to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education (you must submit your school transcripts to receive consideration, and official transcripts will be required upon selection).
 I do not possess the education or experience stated above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your experience or education as it pertains to the basic requirements for this Physical Scientist, GS-1301-12 position:
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree or higher in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics (you must submit your school transcripts to receive consideration, and official transcripts will be required upon selection).
 I have a combination of education and experience. My education is equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education (you must submit your school transcripts to receive consideration, and official transcripts will be required upon selection).
 I do not possess the experience or education stated above.


Minimum Qualifications Requirements for the Integrated Resources Program Manager position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.


4.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Integrated Resources Program Manager work at the GS-12 level or equivalent:
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience is experience that equips the applicant with the particular competencies needed to perform the duties of this position. Experience at this level must include all of the following: managing natural, historical, and/or other cultural resource projects that involve sensitive and complex issues; developing and implementing long-range plans for the inventory, evaluation, documentation, preservation, species recovery, research, and interpretation of resources within the appropriate mission, objectives, and resource contexts; preparing and updating resource sections of park plans, environmental protection plans and projects, and specific action plans; determining compliance pathways for park projects such as categorical exclusions (CE), environmental assessments (EA), and environmental impact statements (EIS); providing technical expertise in all areas related to data collection, analysis, synthesis, reporting, and communicating results of resource management actions including Threatened and Endangered species recovery efforts. Your resume must include hours worked per week or you will not be credited for specialized experience.
 I do not possess the experience stated above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙