Position Title
Criminal Investigator
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13047324-HQ-PW-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Feb 26, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mobile, AL
 Y. Anchorage, AK
 Z. Juneau, AK
 AA. Kodiak, AK
 AB. Alameda, CA
 AC. Los Angeles, CA
 AD. Orland, CA
 AE. San Diego, CA
 AF. San Francisco, CA
 AG. San Pedro, CA
 AH. New London, CT
 AI. District of Columbia, DC
 AJ. Jacksonville, FL
 AK. Key West, FL
 AL. Largo, FL
 AM. Lauderhill, FL
 AN. Miami, FL
 AO. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AP. Sarasota, FL
 AQ. Tampa, FL
 AR. Glynco, GA
 AS. Guam, GU
 AT. Honolulu, HI
 AU. Chicago, IL
 AV. New Orleans, LA
 AW. Portland, ME
 B. Baltimore, MD
 C. Boston, MA
 D. Sault Ste. Marie, MI
 E. Selfridge ANG Base, MI
 F. Saint Louis, MO
 G. Cape May, NJ
 H. Newark, NJ
 I. Buffalo, NY
 J. New York, NY
 K. Elizabeth City, NC
 L. Wilmington, NC
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Portland, OR
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. San Juan, PR
 Q. Charleston, SC
 R. Corpus Christi, TX
 S. Houston, TX
 T. Alexandria, VA
 U. Fairfax, VA
 V. Portsmouth, VA
 W. Seattle, WA
 X. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
From the description below, select the one response which best describes your experience and meets the basic qualification requirements for Criminal Investigator, GS-1811-09.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service which includes: Providing protective service operations and enforcing applicable Federal laws AND planning minor investigations AND applying criminal and civil investigation-related policies, concepts, and principles AND conducting minor investigations.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
From the description below, select the one response which best describes your experience and meets the basic qualification requirements for Criminal Investigator, GS-1811-11.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service which includes: Performing undercover operations, surveillance, and search/seizure operations AND presenting evidence which reconstructs events, sequences and time elements AND responding to requests for investigative assistance from Coast Guard commands and other law enforcement authorities AND assisting U.S. Secret Service with protective assignments.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙