Position Title
Behavioral Health Case Manager
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-13083817-DHA
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only JT DHMTF0037 12868068 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Behavioral Health Case Manager position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Behavioral Health Case Manager at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s or graduate (or higher level) degree with major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position. My degree is from an educational program accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Behavioral Health Case Manager at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes conducting behavioral health assessments or interviews; coordinating behavioral health care plan with multidisciplinary team; and evaluating appropriateness, quality, or cost effectiveness of care.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
