Position Title
SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
STIMP-13041580-26-MW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Transfer Eligible

Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position
-and-
have completed an initial appointment probation or trial period?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).
Note: NRC employees should select 'No' for this question as excepted service employees.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interchange Agreement Eligible

Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

-AND/OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Health Administration Employee
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) Employee
Tennessee Valley Authority Employee
Federal Aviation Administration Employee
Transportation Security Administration Employee
Americorps Employee
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems: Types of Appointments

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

Note: NRC employees will be considered under a different authority and should answer 'no' to this question.
 Yes
 No


4.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reinstatement Eligible

Are you a former Federal Employee who previously held a permanent position and is eligible for reinstatement?

To verify eligibility, you must submit your qualifying SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade; salary; and full performance level.
 Yes
 No


6.
VEOA Eligible

Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:  
served three or more years of continuous active-duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); -OR- 
are entitled to veterans' preference?  
For more information, please review USAJOBS Veterans resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


2.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at the GG/GS-13 level or higher providing comprehensive HR management, including performance management, position classification, workforce planning, staffing, employee relations, benefits, and personnel processing.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


2.
How many years of professional experience do you possess applying Federal human resources regulations, policies, practices, and procedures across multiple HR functional areas (e.g., staffing, classification, employee relations, benefits, retirement, performance management, or workforce planning)?
 I possess less than 1 year of experience.
 I possess more than 1 year, but less then 3 years of experience.
 I possess more than 3 years, but less than 5 years of experience.
 I possess more than 5 years of experience.
 I possess no relevant experience in these areas.


3.
How many years of professional experience do you possess providing HR advice, guidance, and consultation to managers, employees, and/or senior leadership on complex HR program issues?
 I possess less than 1 year of experience.
 I possess more than 1 year, but less than 3 years of experience.
 I possess more than 3 years, but less than 5 years of experience.
 I possess more than 5 years of experience.
 I possess no experience in this area.


4.
Which of the following Federal HR information technology systems have you used or have knowledge/experience using in your professional HR role?
Select all that apply.
 A. USA Staffing
 B. Federal Personnel Processing System (FPPS)
 C. Workforce Transformation Tracking System (WTTS)
 D. Online Retirement Application (ORA)
 E. Government Retirement & Benefits (GRB) system
 F. OPM Executive and Schedule C System (ESCS)
 G. Other Federal information systems not listed
 H. I have no experience with any of the Federal HR information systems listed.


5.
For the Federal HR information systems you selected in the previous question, what best describes your level of experience or proficiency?
 I have limited experience using HR systems and can perform basic searches, data entry, or routine transactions with guidance as needed.
 I regularly use HR systems to independently perform routine HR transactions, retrieve information, and complete assigned HR work.
 I have extensive experience using multiple HR systems, independently performing complex transactions, researching issues, troubleshooting problems, and/or assisting other users.
 I have comprehensive knowledge of one or more HR systems and have served as a resource to others, provided training or guidance, developed procedures, resolved complex system issues, or supported system implementation/administration.
 I have no experience using Federal HR information technology systems.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙