Position Title
Meteorologist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-26-12947756-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 10 location(s).
 A. Calera, AL
 AB. Huntsville, AL
 AD. Mobile, AL
 AE. North Little Rock, AR
 AF. Jacksonville, FL
 AG. Melbourne, FL
 AH. Miami, FL
 AI. Ruskin, FL
 AJ. Tallahassee, FL
 AK. Peachtree City, GA
 AL. Lincoln, IL
 AM. Romeoville, IL
 AN. Indianapolis, IN
 AO. North Webster, IN
 AP. Louisville, KY
 AQ. Paducah, KY
 AR. Shreveport, LA
 AS. Slidell, LA
 AT. Caribou, ME
 AU. Gray, ME
 AV. College Park, MD
 AW. Norton, MA
 AX. Gaylord, MI
 AY. Grand Rapids, MI
 AZ. Negaunee, MI
 BA. White Lake, MI
 B. Jackson, MS
 C. Mount Holly, NJ
 D. Albany, NY
 E. Binghamton, NY
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. Upton, NY
 H. Newport, NC
 I. Raleigh, NC
 J. Wilmington, NC
 K. Brooklyn Heights, OH
 L. Wilmington, OH
 M. Coraopolis, PA
 N. State College, PA
 O. Charleston, SC
 P. Greer, SC
 Q. West Columbia, SC
 R. Memphis, TN
 S. Morristown, TN
 T. Mount Juliet, TN
 U. Burlington, VT
 V. Blacksburg, VA
 W. Sterling, VA
 X. Wakefield, VA
 Y. South Charleston, WV
 Z. Green Bay, WI
 AA. La Crosse, WI
 AC. Sullivan, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Meteorology Series, 1340 because I have:

 A Degree in meteorology, atmospheric science, or other natural science major that included: (1) At least 24 semester (36 quarter) hours of credit in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a) Six semester hours of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b) Six semester hours of analysis and prediction of weather systems (synoptic/mesoscale); c) Three semester hours of physical meteorology; and d) Two semester hours of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. (2) Six semester hours of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* (3) Three semester hours of ordinary differential equations.* (4) At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. * There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Meteorology Series, 1340.


2.
GS-05: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Meteorologist, GS-1340-05 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 I possess a degree in meteorology, atmospheric science, or other natural science major that included: (1) At least 24 semester (36 quarter) hours of credit in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a) Six semester hours of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b) Six semester hours of analysis and prediction of weather systems (synoptic/mesoscale); c) Three semester hours of physical meteorology; and d) Two semester hours of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. (2) Six semester hours of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* (3) Three semester hours of ordinary differential equations.* (4) At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. * There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


3.
GS-07: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Meteorologist, GS-1340-07 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-05) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Using state-of-the-art hydro-meteorological data to monitor current conditions and provide assistance in forecast preparation for weather, water or climate hazards.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education in Meteorology, Atmospheric Science or in a directly related field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I meet the criteria for a superior academic achievement demonstrated by a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with one of the following: A grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study; A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. Note: It is your responsibility to ensure your application clearly states how you meet one of these provisions.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
GS-09: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Meteorologist, GS-1340-09 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Using state-of-the-art hydro-meteorological data to monitor a geographic area and assist in the preparation and issuance of warnings, advisories, outlooks and general forecasts for weather, water or climate hazards.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in Meteorology, Atmospheric Science or in a directly related field or 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙