Position Title
Youth Director (Large or XL)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12900448 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Youth Director - Large SAC/Youth. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in a field related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, psychology, or social work, or other degree appropriate to the position being filled AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in a related field of study as stated above AND 1 year of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field [24 higher level semester hours] appropriate to the position [see above]) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in a field related to youth programs, such as Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, or Home Economics (human development, youth development, psychology, or social work emphasis); or other degree in a field appropriate for this position.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in a field related to youth programs, such as Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, or Home Economics (human development, youth development, psychology, or social work emphasis); or other degree in a field appropriate for this position.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child and youth development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


6.
What size is the DoD Youth Program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large DoD youth program (200 children/youth and above).
 I have experience managing a medium DoD youth program (101 to 199 children/youth).
 I have experience managing a small DoD youth program (up to 100 children/youth).
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙