Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Senior Special Agent)
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-MPI-OECA-26-12997845 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


3.
Are you a current EPA employee who received a notice that you will be displaced or that your position is surplus?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent EPA employee in the competitive service who is applying for a position with more promotion potential than a position you currently hold or previously held on a permanent basis in the competitive service?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current permanent EPA employee in the competitive service who is applying for a position with promotion potential no greater than the promotion potential of a position you currently hold or previously held on a permanent basis in the competitive service?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 Q. Los Angeles, CA
 R. San Diego, CA
 S. San Francisco, CA
 T. Denver, CO
 U. New Haven, CT
 V. Washington, DC
 W. Gulf Breeze, FL
 X. Miami, FL
 Y. Tampa, FL
 Z. Atlanta, GA
 AA. Honolulu, HI
 AB. Boise, ID
 AC. Chicago, IL
 AD. Indianapolis, IN
 AE. Lenexa, KS
 AF. Louisville, KY
 AG. Baton Rouge, LA
 AH. Fort Meade, MD
 AI. Boston, MA
 AJ. Ann Arbor, MI
 AK. Minneapolis, MN
 AL. Saint Louis, MO
 AM. Helena, MT
 AN. Missoula, MT
 AO. Edison, NJ
 B. Buffalo, NY
 C. Syracuse, NY
 D. Charlotte, NC
 E. Durham, NC
 F. Middleburg Heights, OH
 G. Portland, OR
 H. Philadelphia, PA
 I. Guaynabo, PR
 J. Knoxville, TN
 K. Dallas, TX
 L. Houston, TX
 M. Salt Lake City, UT
 N. Seattle, WA
 O. Charleston, WV
 P. Madison, WI


Application Questions
1.
The qualification requirements (both experience and/or education) are stated in this vacancy announcement, and your application must clearly contain this information in order for us to determine you are qualified for the position. Identify the portion of your resume that demonstrates you have the required experience stated in this announcement.


2.
For each position listed on your resume, did you include the position title, company, grade/level (if federal employment), weekly hours worked, and your actual beginning and ending dates of employment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you aware that your resume must not exceed 2 pages and that your application status will be changed to ineligible if you do not submit a resume that is 2 pages or less?
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you reviewed the vacancy announcement How to Apply section and Required Documents section to determine what supplemental materials you must provide?
 Yes
 No


5.
Select the response that best describes the SF-50(s) you are submitting to prove you meet time-in-grade requirements:
 two SF-50s at the next lower grade dated at least a year apart
 within-grade increase SF-50 at the next lower grade
 appointment/initial SF-50 and an explanation because I have not yet received an additional SF-50 since I entered the next lower grade
 SF-50 showing I have held the grade to which I’m applying (or a higher grade) under non-temporary appointment


6.
Which resources led you to apply to this EPA position?
 A. I attended an EPA webinar or virtual session.
 B. I attended a career fair.
 C. I got a message from a recruiter on Handshake or LinkedIn.
 D. I searched USAJOBS.gov.
 E. I got a message from a recruiter on USAJOBS/Agency Talent Portal.
 F. I saw a post on social media.
 G. I was referred by a professional contact, friend, or family member.
 H. Other


7.
If you have held a federal position, please provide the highest permanent grade level you have held and how long you held it (e.g., GS-13, May 2025 - May 2026). If you have never held a federal position, enter "N/A".


8.
If you are a current federal employee, please provide your current grade and how long you have held it (e.g., GS-14, June 2021 - present). If you are not a current federal employee, enter "N/A".


9.
To be eligible for this position, you must: be under the age of 37 OR be a preference-eligible veteran OR currently work or have previously worked in a Federal civilian law enforcement position. Please select the most accurate response:
 I am under 37 years of age.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND I have Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by 5 U.S.C. section 8336 or 8412 such that when the years of service are subtracted from my current age, the adjusted age will be under 37.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND I am a preference-eligible veteran.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND I have Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by 5 U.S.C. section 8336 or 8412 such that when the years of service are subtracted from my current age, the adjusted age will be under 37 AND I am a preference-eligible veteran.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND none of the responses above are applicable.


Dedication to Public Service
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To meet the Qualifications Requirements for Criminal Investigator, GS-14, select the option that best describes your experience background:
 I have 1 YEAR OF SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE equivalent to the GS-13 level in or related to the work of THIS POSITION that provided the specific knowledges, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of THIS POSITION.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙