Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCJD-26-12997992-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Current IRS Employee

Do you currently work on a permanent competitive service appointment with the Internal Revenue Service?

You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

You can check your competitive service status by viewing your latest Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, Block 34, Position Occupied. If eligible, you will see 1-Competitive Service in this block.*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-7 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-7 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management Analyst position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-9: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Management Analyst at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a master?s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Which software applications do you have experience with?(Select all that apply)

 A. Word
 B. Excel
 C. PowerPoint
 D. Outlook
 E. Adobe Acrobat
 F. SharePoint
 G. None of the above


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill in using office automation equipment and software packages to research data and conduct data analysis.

 I create and use Excel to manage and analyze data; and I use Microsoft Word and SharePoint to compose, edit, and share documents.
 I use Excel to manage and analyze data; and use Microsoft Word to compose and edit documents.
 I have some experience using Microsoft Word to compose and edit documents.
 None of the above.


4.
In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations in work situations? (Select all that apply)

 A. Speeches
 B. Meetings
 C. Trainings
 D. Technical assistance/technical briefings
 E. Executive briefings
 F. Experience in oral communications has been recognized as highly successful, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 G. None of the above


5.
In work experiences, in which of the following have you had experience in writing: (Please select all that apply.)

 A. Informational materials
 B. Training manuals or training guidelines
 C. Academic reports
 D. Inter-office memos, transmittal letters, and form letters
 E. Technical reports
 F. Briefing papers
 G. My written products have been convincing and recognized as high quality through a performance appraisal and/or awards.
 H. None of the above


6.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience producing reports and conducting analyses using data from a variety of sources?

 I have produced reports and conducted analyses using data from a variety of sources for my local office.
 I have produced reports and conducted analyses using data from a variety of sources for my region.
 I have produced reports and conducted analyses with a nationwide impact using data from a variety of sources.
 I have no direct experience in these tasks.


7.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in using a variety of qualitative and quantitative methods for analyzing workload trends and survey data?

 I have assisted in analyzing programs and recommending changes and solutions.
 I have assisted in analyzing programs and recommending changes or solutions.
 I have assisted in analyzing workflow processes and making recommendations to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of work.
 None of the above.


8.
Select all the answers that describe your work experience in identifying and analyzing problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. (Select all that apply)

 A. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions.
 B. Used analytical tools in problem solving.
 C. Developed plans for meeting goals and objectives.
 D. Prepared and presented analytical information to management officials in an organization. Analyses are used to explain/justify decision, conclusions, findings, and recommendations.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection?

 I have experience in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection, and have trained others to complete these tasks.
 I have prepared reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 I have played a support role in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 None of the above.


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience assisting in the development of solutions?

 I have no experience in assisting in the development of solutions.
 I have assisted in developing solutions, although not as a regular part of a job and under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have assisted in developing solutions as a regular part of a job.


11.
Select one description which best represents your highest level of work experience in interacting and achieving consensus with various groups and individuals.

 I have experience that involves routinely assisting internal and external stakeholders to resolve issues and problems, which arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers and external stakeholders on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives.
 I have experience that occasionally involves assisting in educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties.
 I have experience that occasionally involves explaining policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies to individuals, and using management techniques to ensure full compliance.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and highest level of experience assisting with the development and/or implementation of new administrative procedures?

 I have no knowledge of, or experience with, development and implementation of new administrative procedures.
 I have knowledge of development and implementation of new administrative procedures, but no experience.
 I have assisted in developing and implementing new administrative procedures.


13.
Select the answer which best describes your experience working on a team.

 I have worked on a team consisting of at least two co-workers from my group to respond to projects.
 I have worked on a team consisting of at least three co-workers from my group to respond to projects or programs.
 I have never worked with a team on a project or program.


14.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience summarizing and making recommendations for improvement in workflow processes?

 I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have assisted in performing this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have successfully and independently performed this task/competency on the job.
 None of the above.


15.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Started up and managed projects through completion.
 D. Established and monitored project progress.
 E. Made resource decisions for competing projects.
 F. Assigned tasks and monitored performance.
 G. Anticipated and resolved problems.
 H. None of the above.


16.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙