Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12816389-AR-25-250 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 19, 2025 to Wednesday, December 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at Field Maintenance Shop # 4
 AOC 2: NG employees in the DCSG4 (This includes Combined Support Maintenance Shop - West, Director of Logistics, State Surface Maintenance Office FMS's 2, 5, 9, 10, 16, 17, 24, 27, 28, 29, and 33, Combined Support Maintenance Shop - East and Unit Training Equipment Site)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E8 - E9, a Warrant Officer in the grade of WO1 - CW5, or an Officer in the grade of O1 - O4 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs? Do you possess the able to explain manuals and work procedures and to prepare production records, work records and reports?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you have the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel? Do you have the experience required to review work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines? Do you possess knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function? Do you have the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes? Do you have experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙