Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-MT-12908350-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 16, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_ICTAP%3F
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Billings, MT
 B. Great Falls, MT
 C. Helena, MT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration. For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-7 Budget Analyst.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience at the GS-5 level in the Federal Service that involved performing budget or financial management work which demonstrates a basic knowledge of commonly used budget and finance principles, practices and methods to perform a range of routine budget execution, formulation, and financial reporting. Examples of specialized experience include formulating budgetary estimates, comparing projected costs with prior expenditures, monitoring the rate and amount of expenditures for specific items, consolidating budgetary data, and researching financial regulatory material to obtain information.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education. Education must be in a closely related field that must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work (e.g., Accounting, Financial Management, Public Administration, Business Administration.) One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered as satisfying the 1 year of full-time study requirement.
 I have a Bachelor's degree with one of the following Superior Academic Achievement provisions: (1) Class Standing: rank in the upper one-third of a college, university, or major subdivision; OR (2) Grade Point Average (G.P.A.): Applicants must have a grade point average of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum OR (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society: Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I have a Combination of Experience and Education: A combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate-level education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. In order to qualify based on a combination, successfully completed graduate education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements.
 I do not have the education or experience as described above.


2.
Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.



3.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-9 Budget Analyst.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in Federal service that involved performing budget or financial management work which demonstrates knowledge of budget and finance principles, practices and methods to perform budget execution, formulation, financial reporting, and internal control functions. Examples of specialized experience include gathering statistical data needed for financial reporting, reviewing the accuracy of budget and program data, monitoring obligations and expenditures, and compiling budget requests.
 I have one of the following types of education in a closely related field (e.g., Accounting, Financial Management, Public Administration, Business Administration): a Master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.); OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate-level education as described in B, which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. In order to qualify based on a combination, graduate education must be in excess of 1 full year. To calculate your percentage of graduate education, first determine the total number of graduate hours that exceed 18 semester hours (or your school's definition of one year of graduate study), then divide the total number of your excess graduate semester hours by 18 (or your school's definition of one year of graduate study).
 I do not have the education or experience as described above.


4.
Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.



I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.


5.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙