Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-HCS-12997073-26-JKW-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current Human Capital Services (HCS) employees and CTAP eligibles.


1.
Are you currently a Human Capital Services (HCS) employee or are you CTAP-eligible?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal GS employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 or held the GS-13 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-12 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.


3.
GS-13: In applying for Human Resources Specialist GS-13, do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-12 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization? Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to, Experience is defined as experience ensuring the training development among all HR disciplines are integrated with the goals of the organization; creating relevant surveys that assist in determining the effectiveness of training programs; developing training programs to address training gaps through survey results; developing formal and informal presentations utilizing multiple training modalities (i.e. virtual, impromptu); developing training in specific HR Liaison disciplines.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


4.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development) position.

BASIC REQUIREMENT: To qualify for the HR Specialist position, candidates must meet the following basic requirements as described in one of the following methods:

Method 1: Merit-Based Method. The Merit-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of one year of specialized experience requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying basic HR concepts, laws, principles, policies, methods, practices and/or HR systems. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. This experience must be equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government.

OR

Method 2: Education-Based Method. The Education-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Successful completion of bachelor's degree (or higher).

OR

Method 3: Training-Based Method. The Training-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Six months of general experience, equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government, requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying laws, regulations, rules, principles, policies, methods, practices, supporting customers, communicating in writing and/or verbally and using various computer systems and office equipment in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions, plus the possession of one of the four training criteria.

Training 1: Successful completion of at least 12 credit hours of college-level (associate degree or higher level) course work in any of the following types of fields, majors or programs or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs: HR (general), HR development, HR management, business, business management/administration, industrial relations, labor relations, industrial psychology, organizational psychology, organizational development, management, organizational behavior, pre-law/law, legal studies, health care management/administration, public administration, public policy, human services, leadership and humanities.

Training 2: Successful completion of at least four formal training courses in HR. The focus of these HR courses will be in areas or those closely related to general HR, Federal HR, private sector/corporate HR or HR management. These courses must be offered through VA (i.e., Talent Management System courses), Federal agencies/departments (i.e., OPM Federal Human Resources Institute) or through external organizations (i.e., HR Certification Institute (HRCI?) Learning, HR University or Management Concepts). For the purpose of this standard, formal means interactive (online or in-person) training that includes communication between the participants and/or the instructor. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of successful completion by the training organization.

Training 3: Successful completion of a formal certificate program in any of the areas (or related areas) listed in Training 1 (above) or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs. A formal certificate program for the purposes of this standard means a series or set of courses that provide a foundational or advanced knowledge. The courses must have been provided by an accredited college, university, organization or company and must have required assignments and/or other course work. Examples of providers include, but are not limited to, Purdue University, Global Cornell University (i.e., eCornell) or Wharton School. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of completion by the training organization.

Training 4: Current professional HR certification through the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM), HRCI, International Public Management Association (IPMA) (or Public Sector HR Association (PSHRA)), American Society for Health Care Human Resources Administration (ASHHRA) or an organization or company that has a formal structure and is nationally recognized by the profession.

GS-0201 levels 12-15 Requirement: To qualify for a Human Resources (HR) Specialist GS-0201 at the GS-12-15 grade levels, candidates cannot qualify based on education only, they must possess either:

Criteria 1: Graduate level degree or higher and 3 years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level; OR

Criteria 2: Possess one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least GS-12.

Specialized experience is defined as; Providing authoritative management advisory services related to the full spectrum of workforce planning, staffing, and recruitment activities. Program focus must be staffing and recruitment. Experience must demonstrate researching associated laws/regulations, analyzing, and evaluating issues, and determining applicable precedents to resolve interrelated recruitment problems. Experience must include conducting personnel training and/or mentoring and substantially contributing to the creation of office-level policies or procedures.

NOTE: Candidates must fully meet or exceed either Criteria 1 or Criteria 2; applicants cannot qualify on the basis of education only.

 In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, I possess a graduate-level degree or higher and 3 years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level as described above.
 In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level as described above.
 I do not meet Criteria 1 or Criteria 2 listed above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
Certification of Information Accuracy: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙