Position Title
Utility Systems Operator
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU-26-12889961-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Utility Systems Operator, WG-5406-7T, 9T to 10 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Utility Systems Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties of maintenance, troubleshooting and repairing water and wastewater treatment plant equipment. I am skilled in computing chlorine to water ratios in drinking water samples; regulating and setting valves for pumping into storage tanks, reservoirs, and distribution mains; maintaining daily logs/records; operating drinking water wells, chlorinators, and chemical feed/vacuum pumps and control switches; and performing lab analysis ensuring state compliance. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance, troubleshooting and repairing water and wastewater treatment plant equipment. I am skilled in computing chlorine to water ratios in drinking water samples; regulating and setting valves for pumping into storage tanks, reservoirs, and distribution mains; maintaining daily logs/records; operating drinking water wells, chlorinators, and chemical feed/vacuum pumps and control switches; and performing lab analysis ensuring state compliance. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks of troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance tasks for water and/or wastewater treatment plant equipment; test drinking water samples for compliance with regulations; maintain daily records and logs; operate water distribution valves and hydrants; and operate primary and secondary wastewater treatment under the supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common of maintenance, troubleshooting and repairing water and wastewater treatment plant equipment. I can take drinking water samples and testing for pH; cleaning/maintaining pumps, buildings, well houses, and reservoirs; collecting various drinking and wastewater samples using standard methods; keeping logs of lab checks and calibrations; performing and recording scheduled preventative maintenance; and operating primary or secondary wastewater treatment. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks such as taking drinking water samples and testing for pH, keeping logs of lab checks and calibrations; performing and recording scheduled preventative maintenance or I have received training on personal protective equipment (PPE) use.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes the level of licensure you currently have obtained. If you hold an equivalent Distribution, Ground Water License or subcategory in a state other than Wisconsin, you may respond accordingly; however, obtaining a Wisconsin license is a condition of employment. (You must attach copies of your certifications to your application package.)

 I currently have and maintain both State of Wisconsin Waterworks Operator Grade T Certification AND a Wastewater Operator-In-Training Certification with the following subclasses: Biological Treatment - Suspended Growth Processes; Solids Separation; Biological Solids/Sludge Handling, Processing and Reuse; Disinfection; Laboratory; and Nutrient Removal - Total Phosphorus.
 I currently have and maintain both State of Wisconsin Waterworks Grade T Certification AND a Wastewater Operator-In-Training Certification.
 I currently have and maintain State of Wisconsin Waterworks Grade T Certification OR Wastewater Operator-In-Training Certification.
 I do not have or maintain State of Wisconsin Waterworks Grade T Certification OR Wastewater Operator-In-Training Certification.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙