Position Title
SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MANAGER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12830506-AR-26-003 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Wednesday, November 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you Warrant Officer in the grades of CW3 - CW5?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of CW3 - CW5.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer in the grades of CW3 - CW5.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education, performing industrial construction standards, methods, practices, techniques, materials, equipment, and utility systems sufficient to determine compliance with building safety standards and devise hazard control measures applicable to airport ground facilities and supporting industrial shops. Experience that demonstrates knowledge of psychological and physiological factors sufficient to develop a ground aviation safety education activity for supervisors and employees, to motivate maintenance personnel to apply safe working practices and to persuade supervisors to accept changes or modifications where required to achieve a safe working environment. Experience performing safety and occupational health principles, practices, procedures and standards applicable to a full range of complex safety and occupational health management responsibilities at a military aviation installation and requiring the planning, organizing, directing, operating and evaluation of a safety and occupational health program related to ground aviation, industrial and marine operations. Experience performing aviation maintenance work processes and support equipment, airport ground operations, facilities and runway maintenance techniques, and industrial work processes.

Do you meet his experience requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Describe your experience in managing a comprehensive Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) program. What strategies have you implemented to reduce workplace mishaps and improve safety outcomes? Provide a specific example of a safety initiative you led and the results achieved.


3.
Explain your approach to ensuring compliance with safety regulations and standards, such as DoDI 6055.07 and 29 CFR 1904.39. How do you conduct safety reviews and risk assessments, and what steps do you take to address identified deficiencies? Share an example of a situation where you successfully mitigated a safety risk.


4.
Discuss your experience in developing and implementing safety training programs for employees. How do you assess training needs, and what methods do you use to promote a culture of safety within your organization? Provide an example of how you have successfully engaged and trained personnel on safety practices.


5.
Outline your experience with conducting safety mishap investigations. What processes do you follow to ensure thorough investigations and accurate reporting? Describe a specific incident you investigated, including the outcome and any corrective actions taken to prevent future occurrences.


6.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙