Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Public Contact Representative (PCR)) (Bilingual- Spanish)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASK-13029124-26-CM (DHA) Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (Public Contact Representative (PCR) (Bilingual- Spanish)) position with the Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
The bilingual Legal Administrative Specialist position has a Selective Factor. The Selective Factor requires that you demonstrate proficiency (ability to speak, read, write, and interpret) in both English and Spanish. You may be tested at some point in the hiring process to determine if you possess the required level of proficiency. If you are unable to demonstrate proficiency, you will not be considered for the position.
Choose the answers below which best describes your ability to qualify for the Bilingual Legal Administrative Specialist position's Selective Factor. (Please select only one (1) response).
 I'm bilingual. I will be able to pass an additional assessment administered by the selecting official showing that I can speak, read, write and interpret in the English and Spanish languages.
 I do not have the ability to speak, write, read and interpret in the English and Spanish languages. I do not meet the selective factor.


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for this position at the GS-05 level.
 I qualify for the GS-5 grade level. I have at least three years of general experience with progressive responsibility and, one year of which was equivalent to at least GS-04 grade level that demonstrates the abilities of Analyzing problems to identify factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; planning and organizing work; and communicating effectively both orally and in writing.
 I qualify for the GS-5 grade level. I have successfully completed a four years of education (e.g., 120 semester hours) above high school in any field leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree that was obtained in a U.S. accredited institution/facility. (You must provide transcripts)
 I have a combination of education and general experience as stated in this announcement, totaling 100% of the qualification requirement for GS-05.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for this position at the GS-07 level.
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience in the federal service or other sector equivalent to at least the GS-05 level or higher. Specialized experience includes: Counseling individuals about benefits; and explaining legal provisions, policy or regulations, and decisions to a variety of audiences.
 I possess one full year of graduate level education or possess a bachelor’s degree with Superior Academic Achievement.
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience required that totals 100% of the total qualification requirement for GS-07.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 No, I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙