Position Title
Civil Engineer (STRUCTURAL)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12948296-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Civil Engineer (STRUCTURAL) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Civil Engineer (STRUCTURAL) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Civil Engineer (STRUCTURAL) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1). Develops designs, plans, and specifications of complex structural features for flood control or navigation, and/or hydropower projects such as reinforced box culverts, pumping stations, locks, dams, weirs, bridges, flood walls, and steel gates. 2). Leads and coordinates structural portion of assigned projects and inspections to include developing design or inspection schedules, costs, or reports. 3). Coordinates and monitors the work of lower grade engineers and technicians ensuring timely completion of design activities.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.
Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are the lead structural engineer reviewing contractor-submitted shop drawings for a new floodwall. You notice the proposed reinforcing has been changed from fiber reinforced polymer to coated steel reinforcement, which is different from what was specified in the contract, though it meets all other requirements. The project is on a tight schedule, and the contractor claims this substitution is due to supplier availability. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Document the discrepancy, contact the contracting officer representative to discuss the non-conformance, and analyze the proposed substitution's impact on life-cycle performance before recommending approval or rejection.
 Formally reject the submittal and return it to the contractor, citing the specific contract specification that has not been met and instructing them to resubmit with the correct materials to maintain compliance with the original design.
 Ask the contractor to provide manufacturer data proving the substituted reinforcement is equivalent in all performance aspects to the specified material and review this data before making a final decision on the drawing's conformance.
 Approve the drawings to avoid project delays but make a note of the substitution in the project record, assuming the contractor is responsible for meeting the overall performance requirements of the structure regardless of the material change.
 Verbally authorize the contractor to use the substituted reinforcement to keep the project on schedule and tell them to submit the paperwork for a "no-cost change order" when they have time, since the strength is technically sufficient.


2.
While conducting an inspection of a concrete floodwall during a flood event, you discover a series of new, vertical cracks in one of the monoliths that is allowing some water to pass through. What is your immediate course of action?

 After thoroughly documenting the cracks you notify the Levee Safety Program Manager, recommend epoxy injection of the cracks but decide to wait before making any further recommendations.
 You conclude that the cracks are likely due to normal thermal expansion and contraction. You recommend that the cracks be sealed with an epoxy injection during the next maintenance cycle to prevent water intrusion and further deterioration of the concrete surface.
 You take a few photos for the inspection report and make a note to compare the cracks to their condition during the next routine inspection. You determine that since the cracks are minor, there is no immediate action required.
 You ignore the cracks, as minor cracking and leaking is common in old concrete, and continue with the rest of your inspection checklist.
 Immediately document the findings with detailed notes, photographs, and precise measurements of the crack widths and any displacement. Notify the Levee Safety Program Manager and your supervisor of the situation. Recommend immediate temporary support for the cracked monolith and epoxy inject cracks.


3.
You are at the final design phase for a replacement intake structure for a hydropower plant that has failed, causing the plant to be shut down. To minimize the significant impact of having the power plant shutdown, you design based on replace in-kind to minimize design and construction time. The technical reviewer believes there are modular alternatives that would provide long-term benefits to the structure, and this design could be implemented for other intakes throughout the agency. However, there has never been a design of this type, and this will significantly lengthen the design time, leading to increased shutdown of the power plant. How should you proceed?

 Have follow up conversations with the reviewer to hash out the best path forward. Inform the project delivery team and Operations of the final decision.
 Understand the position of the reviewers’ comments and their expertise. Move forward with their recommendation of a modular design.
 Inform the reviewer that this is not the time nor opportunity to get creative and move forward with your current design without discussion with the project delivery team.
 Set up a meeting with the project delivery team, reviewers and Operations to discuss the pros and cons of implementing the modular design versus staying on course with the replace-in-kind design. Ensure everyone understands the delays to starting construction and that this design has never been done to help the team make an informed decision.
 Have follow up conversations with the reviewer and hash out the best path forward considering all factors such as design time, start of construction, and novelty of the two considered designs. Present results to project delivery team and Operations for an informed decision.


4.
During the construction of a bridge rehabilitation project you designed, the contractor reports that the existing pier foundations are more deteriorated than the original plans indicated. This creates a potential design conflict and a safety concern. What is your immediate course of action?

 Review the original geotechnical reports and design calculations to confirm your design was correct based on the information available at the time and inform the contractor that this is an unforeseen condition to be resolved via a change order.
 Tell the contractor to over-excavate the deteriorated material and use a higher-strength concrete for the repairs without a formal re-analysis, if a stronger material will inherently solve the problem and keep the project moving.
 Notify the Contracting Officer Representative that work be halted in the affected area and conduct a site visit to investigate the contractor's claims. Use the field data to perform a structural analysis and develop a design modification. Following a technical review, submit the modification to Construction for issuance of a Request for Proposal.
 Immediately travel to the site with the construction QA to personally inspect the reported condition and confer with the contractor's superintendent. Based on your visual inspection, provide directions to the Contracting Officer Representative for immediate remedial actions to ensure site safety.
 Have the Contracting Officer Representative instruct the contractor to propose a technical solution and a price for the extra work, which you will then review for technical adequacy and cost-reasonableness before approving any changes to the original design.


5.
You are assigned to design a hydraulic steel structure (HSS) for a navigation project. You are aware of the directives to assess whether the HSS is a candidate for fiber reinforced polymer, however this has not yet been included in the design schedule. The directives are mandatory for all HSS projects. What is the best way to handle this situation?

 Disregard the directives and design the HSS for steel following current engineering regulations and design guidance.
 Notify the Project Manager of the requirement and impact to schedule. Coordinate with the Inland Navigation Design Center to schedule and conduct the design charrette to determine if fiber reinforced polymer is appropriate for this situation.
 Coordinate with the Inland Navigation Design Center to schedule and conduct the design charrette to determine if fiber reinforced polymer is appropriate for this situation. After a determination is made, notify the Project Manager of results and schedule impacts.
 Conduct the investigation yourself to determine the best material selection, fiber reinforced polymer or steel, for the HSS. Notify Inland Design Center and the Project Manager of your investigation and determination.
 Move forward with the design of the HSS as fiber reinforced polymer using current guidance. Once complete notify Inland Navigation Design Center of your decision and design.


6.
As the lead structural engineer, your preliminary analysis for a new pump station indicates that a pile foundation is the most appropriate to accommodate mechanical and structural features and reduce amount of concrete needed for the project. However, the geotechnical engineering team insists on conducting more extensive analysis to rule out a mat foundation. This adds significant time to the design schedule and creates additional work for all engineering disciplines involved. This leads to significant disagreement with the project delivery team. How should you resolve this conflict?

 Recommend scheduling a foundation design charette with all necessary disciplines to further explore both foundation options and determine the most efficient design. After the foundation type has been decided, ensure all impacts to schedule have been identified and reported to the project manager so that the project schedule can be properly updated.
 Schedule a brief, collaborative meeting with the entire project delivery team. Have each team member presents their analyses and assumptions, and with the goal of finding the most efficient and best overall design for the project to move forward with.
 Prepare a formal document comparing the construction cost, material quantities, and footprint of the two foundations. Submitting it to the technical lead to advocating for the more efficient design.
 Escalate the issue to your supervisor, presenting the technical conflict and the cost and schedule implications. Ask your supervisor to negotiate a resolution with the leadership of the geotechnical engineering team to break the impasse.
 Design the mat foundation as requested by the geotechnical engineers to avoid further conflict and project delays. However, include a prominent note in your design documentation report stating that the design is not necessary and adds significant time to the design schedule.


7.
You need to delegate the design of a standard reinforced box culvert to a GS-9 engineer who has recently joined your team. While the task is routine, you want to ensure it is a positive developmental experience for the employee. What is the best approach to assign this work?

 Give the engineer the project files and a set of drawings from a similar, successfully completed project. Tell them to use the old project as a guide and to let you know if they have any questions during the design process.
 Verbally explain the assignment to the engineer, outlining the basic task and the final due date. Encourage them to be resourceful and to check with other team members if they get stuck before coming to you with problems.
 Forward the initial project request email to the engineer with a short note saying, "Please take the lead on this design." This approach empowers them to take full ownership of the task from the very beginning.
 Decide to complete the design yourself since it's a routine task and you can finish it quickly and without errors. This will free up the new engineer to focus on mandatory training and administrative onboarding tasks.
 Develop a written scope of work with clear objectives, deliverables, and deadlines. Meet with the engineer to review the document, discuss the project's context, explain the relevant design standards, and schedule regular check-in meetings.


8.
During your final QC review of a complex pump station design completed by a junior engineer, you discover a subtle but critical error in the structural calculations that compromise the structure's integrity. Request to Advertise deadline is within 30 days and the final Agency Technical Review is starting in a week. What is the most appropriate action?

 Return the entire design package to the junior engineer with the erroneous calculation circle. Instruct them to re-check all their work on the entire package and resubmit it for your review, without explaining the specific error.
 Report the significant error to your supervisor, noting your concern about the junior engineer's readiness for complex assignments and suggesting they be assigned less critical work until they receive more training on design checking.
 Approve the design package to meet the deadline but plan to issue an amendment during solicitation to fix the error.
 Immediately meet with the junior engineer. Calmly walk them through your findings, explain the potential impact of the error, and guide them as they perform the correction. Use this as a direct teaching moment on QC and attention to detail.
 Correct the calculation and the drawings yourself to ensure accuracy and meet the deadline. Then, send the corrected package to the junior engineer with your markups, explaining the critical nature of the change you made.


9.
A GS-11 engineer from another district asks for your help with a Finite Element Analysis (FEA) model of a complex structural feature. They are struggling with specific details of the model, and they know you have extensive experience with the specific software they are using. Their own structural team leader is a subject matter expert in a different area. How do you respond?

 Politely decline to help and instruct them to go back to their own team lead. Explain that it is important to follow the established supervisory chain of command for all technical issues to avoid confusion and conflicting guidance.
 Ask them to send you the model file. Fix the problem for them and send the corrected file back, as this would be the fastest way to solve the problem and ensure the design is correct.
 Offer to schedule a 30-minute meeting to review their model. Provide high-level guidance and point them to relevant technical manuals or precedent designs, while encouraging them to share the solution with their team lead to keep them informed.
 Give them a quick, informal answer based on your experience with similar problems but caution them that they must get formal approval for the approach from their own supervisor before incorporating it into the final design.
 Direct them to the software's technical support hotline and the official user forums. Explain that while you are an expert, your project workload prevents you from providing detailed assistance on work outside your assigned duties.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙