Position Title
FUL-Interdisciplinary GIS Specialist (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SSO-YOSE-26-13027383-DE-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Field Unit Local Hiring for Yosemite National Park, California is defined as 50 miles from Madera, Tuolumne, Mariposa, and Mono counties. 
Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0150 - Geography
 B. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 C. 1301 - General Physical Science
 D. 1370 - Cartography


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority Instructions
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section
127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals
maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into
competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Yosemite National Park, CA is defined as Madera, Tuolumne, Mariposa, and Mono counties. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of
the field unit being advertised?

If you select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting
evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement,
utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency
Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of
background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This interdisciplinary position may be filled in any of the following series: Geographer GS-0150, Biologist GS-0401, General Physical Science GS-1301 and Cartographer GS-1370. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Make sure your resume supports the response you select.


1.
From the description below, select the best response that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Geographer position, GS-0150.

 I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher in geography; or related physical or social science such as geology, meteorology, economics, statistics, sociology, anthropology, political science, history, cartography, computer science, urban studies, or planning that included at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience in courses equivalent to a major in geography, or a related field that included at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the statements above.


2.
From the description below, select the best response that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Biologist position, GS-0401.

 I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience in courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the statements above.


3.
From the description below, select the best response that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Physical Scientist position, GS-1301.

 I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience. My education is equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the statements above.


4.
From the description below, select the best response that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Cartographer position, GS-1370.

 I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher in cartography; or a major that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in cartography and/or directly related science, and related mathematics. Such course work includes, but is not limited to, cartography, astronomy, geodesy, photogrammetry, physical and geological oceanography, computer science, land surveying, geophysics, physical geography, and remote sensing. The 30 semester hours must have included at least 6, but no more than 15, semester hours of college level, non-business mathematics or statistics (i.e., college level algebra, trigonometry, calculus, or scientific mathematics or statistics requiring equivalent college-level courses as prerequisites). Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience in courses equivalent to a major in cartography, or a major that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in cartography, and/or directly related science, and related mathematics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Applicants whose experience in cartography was in the Federal service may have gained this experience by working in an occupational series other than GS-1370. Occupations in which experience may have been gained include Geography, GS-150; Civil Engineering, GS-810; General Physical Science, GS-1301; Geodesy, GS-1372; and Land Surveying, GS-1373.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the statements above.


5.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best describes your specialized experience to perform the duties of an Interdisciplinary GIS Specialist, series GS-0150, 0401, 1301, and/or 1370-9, in order to meet the Additional Qualification Requirement for this position.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing the following, must include all four elements: (1) using Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) software and technology to provide technical support in the creation and maintenance of geospatial and relational databases; (2) training others in the use of GIS and GPS applications; (3) creating geospatial data and maps following established guidelines; and (4) developing, updating, and managing map services.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree from an accredited college or university with major study that is directly related to the position. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education).
 I have some specialized experience described in A, but less than two (2) years of graduate education as described in B. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education. (To combine education and experience, first divide your total months of qualifying specialized experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one (1) year (18 semester hours) by 18. Add the two percentages together. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify). (Note: only graduate education in excess of one year is creditable toward meeting the experience requirement when combining experience and education. You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education.
 I do not have the level of experience and/or education described in the statements above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙