Position Title
MARKETING ASSISTANT
Agency
Pacific Air Forces
Announcement Number
26-9KFSK772569 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse or unmarried child of a member (sponsor) of the U.S. Armed Forces or US Civilian employee (sponsor) of a U.S. Government Agency (including NAF activities who either: (a) have not passed their 21st birthday, (b) is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before that birthday or (c) has not passes their 23rd birthday and is enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution of higher learning? If claiming yes, please upload a copy of your sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders listing you by name.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a spouse of an active duty military member? A military spouse is defined as the wife or husband of an active duty member of the US Armed Forces, including the US Coast Guard and the full time National Guard or Reserves. For the purposes of this preference, the marriage must have occurred PRIOR to the service member's relocation via a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the military sponsor's new duty station. If claiming yes, a copy of your Sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders (along with proof of marriage if applicant's name does not appear on sponsor's orders) must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veteran?  If claiming yes, a copy of the DD 214 (member 4 or service 2 copy) or equivalent must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Content Creation: Proficiency in designing and editing multimedia using tools like Canva or the Adobe Express suite is highly preferred. 
Scheduling & Management Tools: Familiarity with platforms to automate content calendars. 
Copywriting: Strong writing skills tailored to specific social platforms, with a focus on punchy, engaging, and SEO-friendly captions. 
Analytics: An understanding of how to read native dashboards (Meta Ads Manager, TikTok Insights) and the ability to measure ROI and follower growth
 Yes
 No


2.
Community Engagement: Proactive skills in managing brand sentiment, hiding spam, and responding to user comments or direct messages.
Trend Awareness: The ability to spot emerging digital trends, meme formats, and platform algorithm changes.
Adaptability: Comfort with a fast-paced work environment and the ability to pivot strategies based on real-time data
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Air Force Nonappropriated Fund (NAF). This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for the position of a MARKETING ASSISTANT (SOCIAL MEDIA), NF-1101-03.

Carefully read the following questions and select the statements that best describe your experience and/or education which demonstrate your ability to meet the requirements of this position. Your resume must support the responses to the questionnaire. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating. 



1.
What is Social Media Marketing (SMM)?
 A. Only about sharing photos
 B. Promoting products and services using social media platforms
 C. Only focusing on email marketing
 D. Creating blogs on websites


2.
Which social media tool or feature is ideal for quick interactions and short-lived engagement?
 LinkedIn Groups
 Instagram Stories
 Pinterest Boards
 Facebook Newsfeed


3.
What key metric indicates the effectiveness of your social media strategy?
 Reach
 Engagement Rate
 Click-Through Rate (CTR)
 All of the mentioned


4.
What is "Social Media Advertising"?
 Free organic posts
 Only for sharing company news
 Promoted or sponsored content on social platforms
 Creating long blogs


5.
When looking at social media objectives, which of the following is considered a primary goal of social listening?
 Broadcasting promotional discounts to cold leads
 Identifying brand mentions, industry trends, and customer sentiment
 Optimizing website images for search engines
 Automating direct message (DM) responses for customer service


6.
Which marketing strategy relies on using advanced social media communities and platforms to actively involve customers in product development and brand programming?
 Traditional Strategy
 Interactor Strategy
 Reader Strategy
 Collaborator Strategy


7.
This position requires the incumbent meet the following qualifications:

General Experience: Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating outdoor social media marketing; developing and executing a program level budget; evaluating and/or instructing in the principles and techniques of social media marketing planning and management; and the ability to supervise and lead a team of employees.
OR
Education: Undergraduate (Associates or Bachelor's degree) or Graduate (Masters' degree) education with a major study in general education or the fields of: Marketing and/or Marketing Social Media. (Transcripts must be attached to the application prior to the closing of this announcement.)

Please select the statement which describes the qualifying experience and/or education you possess.    


 A. I possess the general experience as stated above.
 B. I meet the educational requirements and have either an Associates, a Bachelors or a Masters degree with a major study in general education or the fields of Marketing and/or Marketing social media.
 C. I do not possess the general experience and do not meet the educational requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙