Position Title
Director (Program Manager)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
340-26-RPA-12983275-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible candidates. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) or Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible as described above?
 Yes, I am a current permanent VBA or VA CTAP eligible employee and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my status.
 I do not meet the criteria noted above.


VBA Non-Competitive Consideration - If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST answer the below questions and submit your most recent appointment SF-50 and the SF-50 that reflects when you entered your highest grade and step to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


3.
What is your current grade?


4.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements, in addition to minimum qualifications, in order to be considered. For a GS-15 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-14 grade level, or higher, by the closing date of this announcement.


5.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-14 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-14 grade level, or higher.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements of occupying a GS-14 grade level or higher for at least 52 weeks (1 year), by the closing date of this announcement.


MINIMUM Qualifications: This section includes questions regarding qualifications for this position. Select the appropriate response to the following question based upon your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position. Your response(s) must be clearly documented AND supported in your submitted resume/application materials. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selection is subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


6.
Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-14), in the normal line of progression for this occupation in the organization. Applicants must document experience delivering Veteran's benefits services in a Veterans Administration (VA) business line or a Regional Office/VISN setting which includes all the following:
Establishing priorities and determining resource needs to meet program objectives;
Directing, coordinating, and approving a full range of personnel management actions and organizational change proposals;
Directing comprehensive and complex program reviews;
Monitoring and controlling program progression and effectiveness through analysis of policies, directives and organizational short- and long-range goals
Such experience may have been gained in Federal or Private sector and must be substantive and relevant. Candidates must also have demonstrated in their work experience or training that they possess, or have the potential to develop, the qualities to successfully supervise subordinates (including managers and subordinate supervisors).
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-14 or higher in the Federal Service.
 No, I do not have the experience described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 I do not wish to certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙