Position Title
IT Specialist (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CIO-26-12938554 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


FLETC Data Questions
1.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal Government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


2.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


3.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


4.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


5.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


6.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to complete an OGE 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, within 30 days of starting federal employment.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please limit your résumé to 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, only the first 2 pages will be reviewed. Only the 2 page resume with the latest time stamp will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. Please ensure your resume does not have any photographs on it.
Please ensure your responses below are supported by information in your resume. 
When uploading documentation to your application, please ensure that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one, and then upload/attach into the correct folder. (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, you would need to combine them into one PDF file and then upload under the SF-50 folder. 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers in the Competitive Service? 
To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect: - Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND, - Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in federal service performing duties such as:
Assisting with or supporting an Information Technology (IT) Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC) or IT portfolio management program by helping collect, validate, and analyze investment data (e.g., cost, schedule, performance, risk), contributing to business cases or investment artifacts, and helping prepare portfolio health reports or dashboard inputs in alignment with OMB Circulars A-11 and A-130 and organizational CPIC policy; AND
Supporting IT acquisition planning activities for IT investments by contributing to requirements documents, statements of work, market research summaries, evaluation factors, or performance measures, and coordinating with contracting personnel to ensure alignment with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and agency acquisition policy; AND
Assisting in the integration of cybersecurity, privacy, and related risk management requirements into investment planning and acquisition documentation by referencing frameworks such as FISMA, the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) and control families, FedRAMP authorization status, continuous monitoring expectations, vulnerability and configuration management requirements, and/or zero trust-aligned controls; AND
Assisting in the incorporation and documentation of Section 508 accessibility requirements for IT acquisitions or solutions (e.g., helping ensure that accessibility requirements are stated, vendor Accessibility Conformance Reports/VPATs are requested or reviewed, or acceptance criteria reflect accessibility expectations); AND
Preparing or contributing to written products and briefings (e.g., CPIC or FITARA-related reports, responses to data calls, governance read-ahead packages, or audit/oversight responses) that explain investment or acquisition data, identify issues, and recommend or summarize proposed actions for management review; AND
Participating in cross-functional coordination with stakeholders such as program managers, budget/finance staff, contracting officers, cybersecurity and privacy officials, enterprise architects, and/or data and portfolio stewards to gather information, reconcile discrepancies, and support CPIC, FITARA, or IT acquisition decisions.
 Yes
 No


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙