Position Title
Loan Assistant/Specialist (Agricultural) - Recent Graduates
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSA-26-13065657-RG-GA-JLF Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? OR,

Are you a veteran who was unable to apply within two years of receiving your qualifying degree or certificate (associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctoral, or vocational/technical degree or certificate) due to military service obligation AND are you within six years from the date the degree or certificate was completed?

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.


 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please respond to the following questions. Any experience claimed in response to the questions MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC, (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide supporting documentation may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Are you a Recent Graduate that has completed all the requirements for an academic course of study leading to a qualifying degree from an accredited educational institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education within the previous two years OR I am a veteran that completed all the requirements for an academic course of study within the previous six years?

 Yes, I have completed all the requirements for an academic course of study leading to a qualifying degree from an accredited educational institution within the preceding two years. OR I am a veteran that completed all the requirements for an academic course of study leading to a qualifying degree from an accredited educational institution, but due to a military service obligation, I was unable to apply within the two-year time frame, but it has been no more than six years since I have completed my qualifying degree.
 No, I do not meet the above requirement.


2.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-5, Loan Assistant (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)

 I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, OR I possess a bachelor's degree in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or another field related to the position such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock, ranch management or rural sociology.
 I have completed one year of graduate education OR I possess a master's degree or higher graduate degree with a major field of study as listed above.
 I have at least one full-time year (12 months) of specialized work experience that demonstrated basic knowledge of loan examining and/or servicing principles, procedures and techniques as they apply to investigation, analysis and evaluation of financial factors and credit risks in granting and servicing of agricultural loans. In addition, this experience demonstrated basic knowledge of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area.
 I have three years of general work experience that required gathering and analyzing facts and figures and presenting information or conclusions in clear oral and written language; OR that provided a knowledge of the principles of financial analysis or insurance laws, such as contract, property, life casualty, or marine insurance.
 I have less than four years of post-high school education in a field listed above, and less than the specialized experience, but I have a combination of the education and experience (i.e., 3 years of post-high school education and at least 3 months of specialized experience).
 I have less than four years of post-high school education in a field listed above, and less than the general experience, but I have a combination of the education and general experience (i.e., 1 year of post-high school education and at least 27 months of general experience).
 My education and/or experience are not described in any of the responses above.


3.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-7, Loan Assistant (Agricultural) work.

 I have Superior Academic Achievement from an accredited college or university with a bachelor's degree in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or another field related to the position, such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology with either: 1) a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 based on a 4.0 scale; 2) a 3.5 GPA based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; 3) class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; 4) membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies.
 I have completed one year of graduate education OR I possess a master's degree or higher graduate degree with a major field of study as listed above.
 I have at least one full-time year (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. This experience demonstrated basic knowledge of loan examining and/or servicing principles, procedures and techniques as they apply to investigation, analysis and evaluation of financial factors and credit risks in granting and servicing of agricultural loans. In addition, this experience demonstrated basic knowledge of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area.
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education and less than the amount of specialized experience, but I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience.
 My education and/or experience are not described in any of the responses above.


4.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-9, Loan Specialist (Agricultural) work. SELECT ONLY one LETTER. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)

 I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or other fields related to the position such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology.
 I have at least one full-time year (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service that demonstrated competence in agricultural loans. This experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for agricultural loans; servicing an agricultural loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association; or similar work. I have demonstrated knowledge of credit principles and practices to assess the fundamental soundness of individual loans by independently examining applications, supporting documents, and credit reports, and maintaining servicing activities on small agricultural loans. In addition, my experience demonstrated knowledge and understanding of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area where loans are made and serviced.
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education listed in A above and less than the experience described in B, but I have a combination of graduate education beyond the first year (i.e., 18 semester hours) and experience.
 My education and/or experience are not described in any of the responses above.


5.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best indicates your knowledge and experience in applying credit principles and practices.

 I have compiled and evaluated cash flow, financial statements, statement of earnings, credit reports, etc. to assess capacity to operate a profitable enterprise.
 I have researched financial regulations and policies to determine the most effective approach in resolving a financial problem, providing options and recommendations to a customer.
 I have prepared cash flow, financial statements, and statement of earnings for myself or other individuals.
 I have reviewed cash flow, financial statements, and statement of earnings in a learning setting to obtain knowledge and understanding of credit principles and practices.
 None of the above.


6.
From the description below, choose the response that best describes your ability to gather and analyze facts and figures.

 I have gathered market values on specific agricultural commodities from various sources to analyze the profitability of new and existing agricultural operations.
 I have applied accounting theories, practices, and principles to analyze financial reports.
 I have compiled financial records and obtained missing information for loan processing.
 I have identified discrepancies in various accounts/records and taken action to correct errors or adjust entries.
 None of the above.


7.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of agricultural policy requirements.

 I have applied policies and regulations to make and/or service agricultural loans.
 I have advised borrowers of the various agricultural programs and implications on their individual situation to determine the type and amount of assistance most beneficial to them.
 I have demonstrated work or educational experience in researching, interpreting, and applying agricultural or lending regulations.
 I have applied for a program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, following program regulations and requirements.
 None of the above.


8.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience researching, interpreting and applying agricultural or lending regulations.

 I have applied knowledge of agricultural lending regulations to evaluate and administer loans to customers.
 I have applied knowledge of the legal terminology needed to understand deeds, liens, title searches and to process legal instruments and supporting documents relative to loan making.
 I have gathered information and selected the appropriate guideline, reference or procedure to complete assignments.
 I have prepared research papers on topics related to an agricultural or financial/business management field.
 None of the above.


9.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your level of knowledge of agricultural production practices.

 In addition to being knowledgeable about production costs, rates, practices, health and disease control measures, I have performed work tasks relating to customary crop and livestock production practices, contract provisions, and performance expectations for specialty and integrated crop and livestock operations.
 To perform my work, I have applied knowledge about customary crop and livestock production practices such as typical costs of production (e.g., fuel, fertilizer, chemical, veterinary, seed, feed, repair, etc.) per unit, typical rates of production, accepted or normal tillage and crop rotation practices, proven livestock production practices, normal health and disease control measures for the most prevalent enterprises, etc.
 I have performed work tasks relating to agricultural lending or an agricultural program.
 I am familiar with livestock, crop, fruit and vegetable production practices (e.g., 4H, Future Farmers of America, etc.).
 None of the above.


10.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of crop and livestock marketing alternatives.

 I have experience as an owner/operator of a farm and conducted market research to obtain the maximum return from production.
 I have made decisions regarding market availability and volatility relating to crop/livestock enterprises.
 I have considered marketing alternatives offered by brokerage or similar firm and understood the risks associated with these marketing alternatives.
 I have made financial and operating decisions regarding a personal business.
 None of the above.


11.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your level of agricultural knowledge and experience.

 I have an education background with college level coursework in agricultural production, agricultural business or agricultural systems and I have worked on a farm and helped in the growing or raising of an agricultural product or crop.
 I have managed a farm and have been involved in decision making for the operation.
 I have an education background with college level coursework in agricultural production, agricultural business or agricultural systems.
 I have experience in a rural community and have knowledge of agricultural production practices and/or worked on a farm and helped in the growing or raising of an agricultural product.
 None of the above.


12.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to maintain effective contacts with representatives of agricultural agencies, civic groups, farmers and the general public.

 I have provided advice and explained technical farm loan program rules and regulations to assist borrowers in completing loan applications.
 I have provided guidance and assistance to explain rules and regulations in support of making a loan.
 I have presented information and acted as a resource for agricultural related topics to farm groups such as the Future Farmers of America, Farm Bureau, Corn Growers? Association, Cattlemen?s Association, etc.
 I have handled questions from the public and peer groups regarding agricultural or financial policies and procedures.
 None of the above.


13.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to communicate.

 I have conducted formal stand up training workshops or classes, engaging the audience and obtaining feedback.
 I have done both C & D.
 I have presented information to groups in a formal setting.
 I have advised/consulted with individuals on a one-on-one basis.
 None of the above.


14.
From the description below, choose the response that best describes your experience communicating in writing with a variety of individuals/groups.

 I have written narratives to support a business plan or term paper on an agricultural, financial, or business topic.
 I have prepared written information on new procedures, techniques and trends in the agricultural and/or financial management field.
 I have developed correspondence and/or written papers.
 I have responded in writing to inquiries or requests for information.
 None of the above.


15.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience to effectively handle conflicts and negotiations.

 I have independently persuaded others to adopt solutions to resolve conflict situations.
 I have assisted in identifying conflict situations between individuals and steered them to the appropriate people and resources to help those individuals work out their issues.
 I have helped to de-escalate conflict between others and helped to defuse tension in hostile situations.
 I have performed my work tasks in a way that generates minimal conflict with my peers.
 None of the above.


16.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your commitment to customer service.

 I have taken proactive steps to prevent future issues or problems for the customer.
 I have sought out information about the needs of the customer to address their concerns.
 I have corrected customer problems promptly without becoming defensive.
 I have been accessible and regularly updated and shared pertinent information with customers.
 None of the above.


17.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to be innovative and creative.

 I have overcome resistance to improve an existing process or system.
 I have identified opportunities for new projects and acted on them to improve a work process or method.
 I have integrated the ideas of others into work products.
 I have provided suggestions to improve the quality and efficiency of a work product.
 None of the above.


18.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding ?no? to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙