Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Division Director) - TEMP PROMOTION/DETAIL
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12923563-26-SM-DETAIL Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.


1.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
 

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service and has held a permanent (non-temporary) position in the competitive service at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that describes your qualifications for the Supervisory Human Resources Specialist, GS-15.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level. Experience includes providing leadership in establishing performance metrics and accountability for an Agency and HR Office; applying classification, position management advisory services, and desk audits for an agency; and applying workforce analysis, forecasting and best practices to meet the Office of Personnel Management and Administration’s goals in strategic human capital management.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙