Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician-Electroencephalography
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12899791-26-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 16, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Medical Instrument Technician-Electroencephalography vacancy with the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Appendix G27, requires that applicants meet the following basic requirements.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following are the basic requirements for appointment as an Medical Instrument Technician in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with Chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)

Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Physical Requirements. Physical requirements are those physical, mental, and emotional capabilities, and characteristics that are essential for successful job performance.

Do you have the above capabilities and characteristics?
 Yes
 No


4.
Certification. No certification or registration is required; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have BCLS (Basic Cardiac Life Support) certification and ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) certifications.

Do you have the one of the above listed Certifications?

*Note - Please upload a copy of certificate with application.*
 Yes
 No


5.
Medical Instrument Technician-EEG, GS-07 Experience: At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. This would be experience which provided knowledge of advanced specialized procedures, the pharmacology related to this occupation, and knowledge of related acute disorders and diseases and their effects on organs and methods of treatment. (GS-06) Experience: Operates and monitors EEG equipment in the EEG Lab, intensive care units, operating room, and the patient's bedside. Performs a full range of standard, routine EEG examinations including routine awake and sleep recordings, electrocerebral silence recordings, multiple sleep latency recordings, intraoperative monitoring, electrocorticography. Performs nerve conduction studies using electromyography equipment. Prepares recordings for interpretation and performs a preliminary review and interpretation of the recordings. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the GS-06 following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk:
 
Knowledge of basic medical terminology, neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, and EEG interpretation.
Ability to position patients for the examination or treatment including using standard alternate positions for patient with common physical disabilities.
Ability to operate the appropriate EEG equipment to administer routine, standardized diagnostic or treatment procedures.
Knowledge of normal and abnormal results to recognize and report obvious abnormalities during procedures.
Knowledge of universal precautions and basic sterilization methods to clean instruments to prevent the spread of infectious diseases.
Knowledge of EEG and peripheral equipment to conduct routine maintenance and adjustment checks.

Do you have the above GS-06 experience and KSA mentioned above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Medical Instrument Technician-EEG, GS-08 Experience: At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. This would be experience which provided knowledge of advanced specialized procedures, the pharmacology related to this occupation, and knowledge of related acute disorders and diseases and their effects on organs and methods of treatment. (GS-07) Experience: Independently performs routine but complex procedures and has advanced knowledge in certain areas. They are able to deal with difficult or more complex patients. They are able to identify and correct most artifacts. Procedures are fully explained to the patient and family members to set them at ease. Interpretative skills are sufficient to allow identification of more serious conditions requiring rapid intervention. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the GS-07 following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk: 
Ability to perform more complex electroencephalography studies such as evoked potential (visual, auditory, somatosensory) and transcranial Doppler studies.
Knowledge of medication effects related to electroencephalography studies and clinical situations requiring medication.
Knowledge of life threatening or medically emergent testing or patient situations.
Ability to recognize artifacts (patient or environmental) and document, eliminate, or take proper measures to monitor the artifact.
Do you have the above GS-07 experience and KSA mentioned above?
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you demonstrate the below GS-08 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities? 
Ability to interpret testing data to evaluate critical information for surgeons and other medical staff during testing procedures.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology of the nervous system and the ability to understand the relationship of EEG and evoked potential testing in detecting states of disease and health.
Knowledge of behavior assessment during seizure attacks in order to insure adequacy of recordings during seizure discharges.
Knowledge of a variety of advanced EEG equipment and peripheral equipment such as equipment for brain mapping, video EEG telemetry systems with seizure detection computers, and spike analysis software.
Knowledge of anticonvulsant medications and their effects on the EEG as well as other frequently used pharmaceuticals.
Ability to adapt neurodiagnostic devices, parameters, and procedures to complex, unusual, and often critical situations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙