Position Title
Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12902130-26-JJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-12


The following questionnaire is used to help determine your eligibility and qualifications. Please answer the following questions honestly and be sure to review your answers prior to submitting.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English language?

 Yes
 No


2.
I hold a minimum of a bachelor's degree and am a graduate from a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months in duration. The medical dosimetry program must be accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. JRCERT is the accrediting agency for the medical dosimetry programs recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application).

NOTE: If your school degree/program was accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (ED), but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.
 Yes I hold the bachelor's degree and graduated from a 12 ,month medical dosimetry program accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in radiologic Technology (JRCERT)
 Yes, graduated prior to 01/01/2017, I meet the education requirement provided they meet all the Medical Certification Board (MDCB) requirements
 NO


3.
Credentialing Standards: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75. They must have successfully completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the ED, and be radiation therapists certified by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (T).

Do you meet these Credentialing Standards as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
 Yes, certification submitted
 No


4.
I'm Certified in medical dosimetry by the MDCB. Certified Medical Dosimetry (CMD)
 Yes,  Certification Submitted
 No


5.
Please provide the following information regarding your certification in medical dosimetry: certification number, date of original issuance, date of expiration. (You must submit a copy of your certification with your application).


GRADE REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GRADE DETERMINATION FOR GS-12: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates:

Medical Dosimetrist, GS-12.Experience. At this level, candidates must possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level and must fully meet the KSAs.

Note: Please ensure how you meet these technical competencies is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


7.
In addition to meeting the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of the care and use of radioactive resources for implementation and treatment delivery.
(b) Skill at effective communication and leadership as demonstrated by providing orientation and training for staff, providing input for yearly appraisals, directing progress and coordination of workload, and ensuring compliance with standard operating procedures and directives to provide continuity of care.
(c) Skill in providing guidance and expertise related to all aspects of the treatment planning process.
(d) Skill to independently perform complex treatment procedures as evidenced by completing tasks such as developing and troubleshooting highly complex isodose treatment plans delineating critical structures and tumor volumes, performing weekly chart checks, performing QA verifications and providing training on all aspects of the Record and Verify System such as Mosaiq or Aria.
(e) Ability to resolve complex physical and geometric errors in radiation equipment, simulation procedures and treatment delivery implementation.
(f) Ability to follow protocols including, but not limited to developing and implementing policies and standard operating procedures, participating in research programs, ensuring compliance with the radiation safety office, national program office, and accrediting agencies, and following established quality standard measures.
(g) Ability to apply a broad range of specific methods of radiation measurements including, but not limited to, diode, ion chamber, thermoluminescent dosimeter, or film measurement as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist and perform or assist with the QA procedures as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist.

Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?

Note: Please ensure how you meet these KSAs is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


REMINDER - you must provide a complete application package which includes: Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Grade Level (for Federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.  If you are a current or former VA or Federal Employee, you must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50) Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙