Position Title
Embedded Integrated Prevention Supervisor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13051919 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 07, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for submitting your application for Supervisory Embedded Integrated Prevention Coordinator with Command, Navy Region Northwest.  Please answer all questions and ensure your answers are documented properly in your resume.  All related documentation (transcripts, SF-50, etc) must be uploaded with your application to be considered for this role.  

Duties and responsibilities outlined in this questionnaire and vacancy announcement are not an exhaustive list and other duties may be assigned as needed.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess at least a bachelor's degree in social or behavioral sciences and have four or more years professional experience working in the behavioral sciences?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please share your level of supervisory experience.
 I have four or more years of experience supervising employees in a government agency.
 I have four or more years of experience supervising employees in a civilian organization.
 I have 1-3 years of experience supervising employees in a government agency.
 I have 1-3 years of experience supervising employees in a civilian organization.
 I have less than a year of supervisory experience.
 I have no experience supervising others.


3.
What is your range of experience working with victims of family and interpersonal violence, sexual harassment, sexual assault, and/or substance abuse?
 I have more than four years of experience in this competency.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in this competency.
 I have no practical experience in this competency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
This is a non-critical sensitive position requiring access to IT II system and/or PII. Position requires employee to obtain/maintain a Secret Security Clearance.  Are you able to fulfill this requirement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙