Position Title
EDUCATION SERVICES OFFICER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12846876-AR-26-006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants ONLY. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O3?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades O1 - O3.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all of the questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I have a degree that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours appropriate to the position to be filled in one or a combination of the areas described below. At least one course must have been from (1) or (2): (1) Tests and measurement: Study of the selection, evaluation, administration, scoring, interpretation, and uses of group and individual aptitude, proficiency, interest, and other tests. (2) Adult education: Study of the adult as a learner, teaching-learning theories for adults, models and procedures for planning, designing, managing, and evaluating adult learning activities. (3) Educational program administration: Study of the foundation and methods in organizing for adult and continuing education programs. (4) Curriculum development or design: Study of the principles and techniques for development of curricula for adult or vocational education programs. (5) Teaching methods: Study of teaching strategies and learning styles of the adult learner. (6) Guidance and counseling: Study of the purposes and methods in counseling and guidance, the role of the counselor in various settings, approaches to counseling, and the uses of tests in the counseling situation. (7) Career planning: Study of career development, learning activities, systems, approaches, program coordination, use of educational and community resources, and vocational counseling systems. (8) Occupational information: Study of theories of occupational choice and vocational development and their application to the guidance process. Identification and utilization of various types of occupational information and resources. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower grade GS-09, or equivalent in other pay systems. Examples of specialized experience includes professional knowledge of education theories, concepts, principles, and practices applicable to a wide range of duties in the broad area of education to include career planning, educational and interest testing, and professional military education. Professional knowledge of a wide range of education services, policies and regulations to deliver programs and services which include coordination of logistical support with academic institutions and scheduling activities. Knowledge of contracting and procurement policies and procedures applicable to suppliers' methods of operations to recommend the most effective services available. In-depth knowledge of marketing and publicity techniques and the ability to communicate orally and in writing to resolve a variety of problems; gain program support and convey to clients the full scope of services and resources available and encourage their participation.
OR
EDUCATION: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Note: You must submit copies of your transcripts.

 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience in planning, organizing, and directing program activities. How have you ensured that legal and regulatory requirements were met in your previous roles? Provide specific examples of how you developed goals and objectives that aligned with organizational and military human resources objectives.


4.
Discuss a time when you resolved a significant management issue or addressed a specialized problem within your organization. What steps did you take to analyze the situation, and what were the outcomes of your actions? Include any relevant data or metrics that demonstrate the impact of your resolution.


5.
Explain how you have utilized written and oral communication techniques to deliver briefings, project papers, or status reports to stakeholders. Provide an example of a situation where your communication fostered understanding and acceptance of your findings or recommendations.


6.
Describe your experience with strategic planning in an organizational context. How have you participated in shaping the direction of an organization, and what role did modern technology play in your planning processes? Share an example of how you leveraged technology to enhance program outcomes or operational efficiency.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙