Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCR-26-12952000-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 X. Phoenix, AZ
 Y. Laguna Niguel, CA
 Z. Los Angeles, CA
 AA. Sacramento, CA
 AB. San Diego, CA
 AC. San Francisco, CA
 AD. San Jose, CA
 AE. Thousand Oaks, CA
 AF. Denver, CO
 AG. East Hartford, CT
 AH. Washington, DC
 AI. Jacksonville, FL
 AJ. Miami, FL
 AK. Plantation, FL
 AL. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Honolulu, HI
 AO. Chicago, IL
 AP. Indianapolis, IN
 AQ. Louisville, KY
 AR. New Orleans, LA
 AS. Baltimore, MD
 AT. Boston, MA
 AU. Detroit, MI
 AV. Saint Paul, MN
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Newark, NJ
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. New York, NY
 H. Westbury, NY
 I. Greensboro, NC
 J. Cincinnati, OH
 K. Cleveland, OH
 L. Oklahoma City, OK
 M. Portland, OR
 N. Philadelphia, PA
 O. Pittsburgh, PA
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Austin, TX
 R. Farmers Branch, TX
 S. Houston, TX
 T. Salt Lake City, UT
 U. Richmond, VA
 V. Seattle, WA
 W. Milwaukee, WI


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-11 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-11 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Paralegal Specialist position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Paralegal Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Please select the work environments where you have gained legal experience/proficiencies. (Select all the apply)

 A. I have worked at a small firm or solo practice with 1-3 attorneys for two years or more.
 B. I have worked for mid-sized firm with 4-10 attorneys for two years or more.
 C. I have worked for a large firm with 11 or more attorneys for two years or more.
 D. I have worked in a Federal government legal department for two years or more.
 E. I have worked in an in house or corporate legal department or state government legal department for two years or more.
 F. I have volunteered for two or more years at law firms, Federal government legal department(s) and/or in house or corporate legal department or state government legal department.
 G. None of the above.


3.
From the below list, identify the types of legal research you have conducted. (Please select all that apply).

 A. Statute (including legislative history).
 B. Case law (including judicial decisions).
 C. Regulation/administrative rules (federal and state, including agency decisions).
 D. Policy guidance (this can include any of the above).
 E. Federal rules.
 F. I have not conducted the above legal research, but I have conducted in-depth non-legal research.
 G. I have not conducted legal research as described above.


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing documents or other information?

 I have no education, training, or experience in analyzing documents or other information.
 I have had education and training in analyzing documents or information but have not performed this task in a professional setting.
 I have analyzed documents and information as part of a job.


5.
Which of the following best describes your experience with the basic principles and methodology used in legal research?

 I have experience locating non-legal reference materials.
 I have experience locating requested legal reference materials and requested cites and statutes.
 I have experience researching statutes, regulations, precedents, and established practices sufficient to identify basic legal issues, develop summaries and digests of legal references, and analyze precedents in well-defined and settled points of law through research of reference sources.
 I do not possess any of the above-described experience.


6.
Please indicate which of the following tasks you have performed using LexisNexis or Westlaw. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have researched legal materials to support or refute a proposition and composed a written summary of findings.
 B. I have identified legal authorities to support or refute a proposition.
 C. I have researched subsequent history of (Shepardized) a legal citation.
 D. I have located legal materials based on a citation.
 E. I have checked the accuracy of a legal citation.
 F. I have performed none of the above.


7.
From the list below, identify which items you have prepared written explanation of. (Please select all that apply.)

 A. Agency rules.
 B. Statutes and regulations.
 C. Factual case summaries (including summary of case facts; summary of witness testimony; summary of client interview(s)).
 D. Legal case summaries (including summary of facts and discussion of applicable law to a specific case with specific facts, with regard to its strengths, weaknesses, and priority of legal arguments in support of a litigation position).
 E. Legal memorandum of law.
 F. Assist with the preparation of legal briefs or memorandum of law in support of motion, opposition, or other attached filing.
 G. Trial notebook preparation.
 H. I have not prepared written explanation of the items listed above.


8.
Which of the following tasks have you performed? (Please select all that apply.)

 A. Interviewing individuals to develop or verify facts.
 B. Communicating information to others.
 C. Working as part of a team to complete a job, task, or goal.
 D. Answering client inquiries.
 E. Drafting and editing non-legal memoranda and research reports.
 F. Assist with trial preparation.
 G. I have not performed the above-listed tasks.


9.
From the list below, identify which activities you have performed related to the preparation and/or review of legal documents, instruments, and exhibits. (Please select all that apply.)

 A. Proofreading for spelling and punctuation.
 B. Proofreading for adherence to appropriate legal document format.
 C. Editing for correct legal document style (e.g., local rules, appellate rules, etc.)
 D. Retrieving, organizing, and establishing case files.
 E. Reviewing legal citations for accuracy and applicability.
 F. Reviewing legal citations for adherence to the standards and rules of legal citation and style.
 G. I do not have experience performing the activities listed above.


10.
From the below list, identify the types of legal or related documents you have drafted. (Please select all that apply.)

 A. Correspondence to external stakeholders.
 B. Pleadings, motions, or legal memoranda.
 C. Memos or other guidance documents explaining a particular legal issue.
 D. Trial or Deposition Subpoenas.
 E. I have not drafted legal or related documents as described above.


11.
Which of the following best describes your experience reviewing administrative files, financial documents, and other evidence submitted?

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


12.
What is the greatest number of electronically stored documents you have been responsible for managing?

 1,000 or more documents.
 100-999 documents.
 99 or fewer documents.
 I have not managed documents.


13.
What is the greatest number of hard copy documents you have been responsible for managing?

 1,000 or more documents.
 100-999 documents.
 99 or fewer documents.
 I have not managed documents.


14.
Which is the greatest number of trial exhibits have you prepared for use in a single legal case?

 Over 100
 50 - 100
 1 - 49
 None


15.
Have you ever handled arrangements (e.g., for travel, shipments of files, and/or temporary office facilities) for professionals working away from their home base office.

 Yes
 No


16.
Please select the answer which best describes how often you have assisted an attorney onsite at a courtroom proceeding lasting one day or longer.

 Over 10 times
 1 - 10 times
 Never


17.
Have you ever been responsible for monitoring reimbursements (travel or other) to witnesses or other persons?

 Yes
 No


18.
Which of the following best describes your experience preparing summaries of testimony and creating a synopsis of exhibits for the trial attorney's use in preparing witness questions and findings of fact for briefs?

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


19.
Please describe your experience with Microsoft Word or other word processing software. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have produced a Word document over 50 pages in length.
 B. I have produced a Word table more than 5 times.
 C. I have generated a table of contents and/or a table of legal authorities.
 D. I have inserted hyperlinks into a Word document.
 E. I have attended formal advanced Word training of 4 hours duration or more.
 F. None of the above.


20.
Please describe your experience with Adobe Acrobat. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have scanned hard copy documents into electronic form.
 B. I have extracted and/or inserted pages for Adobe Acrobat documents.
 C. I have combined PDF documents using Adobe Acrobat.
 D. None of the above.


21.
Please describe your experience with Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have input data to an Excel spreadsheet.
 B. I have created an Excel spreadsheet.
 C. I have used the data sort application.
 D. I have used the filter feature.
 E. None of the above.


22.
Do you have experience with databases in one or more of the programs, such as Microsoft Access, Relativity and similar electronic litigation tools? (If you answer yes, please list them in your resume.)

 Yes
 No


23.
Please indicate your electronic courtroom experience. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have helped plan the use of an electronic courtroom.
 B. I have prepared documents to be incorporated into an electronic courtroom presentation system.
 C. I have incorporated files and documents into a presentation system.
 D. I have run an electronic presentation in the courtroom.
 E. I have provided other technical assistance to attorneys conducting electronic trial.
 F. None of the above.


24.
Please select the answer which describes your experience with Federal tax litigation in the U.S. Tax Court and other Federal Courts.

 5 or more years
 2 to 4 years
 Less than 2 years
 No experience


25.
Please select the answer which describes your experience with Federal Income Tax.

 5 or more years
 2 to 4 years
 Less than 2 years
 No experience


26.
Which of the following best describes your familiarity with Federal tax law? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have worked in an office specializing in Federal tax law or administration for at least one year.
 B. I have worked in an office occasionally dealing with Federal tax law for at least one year.
 C. I have worked in a law office dealing with law other than Federal tax law for at least one year.
 D. I have studied tax law in at least one college level course.
 E. I have prepared tax returns for others.
 F. I have prepared my own personal tax return.
 G. None of the above.


27.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙