Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IO-26-MI-12933103 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 N. Little Rock, AR
 O. North Little Rock, AR
 P. Long Beach, CA
 Q. Los Angeles, CA
 R. San Francisco, CA
 S. Denver, CO
 T. Washington, DC
 U. Miami, FL
 V. Orlando, FL
 W. Saint Petersburg, FL
 X. Tampa, FL
 Y. Atlanta, GA
 Z. Chicago, IL
 AA. Hines, IL
 AB. North Chicago, IL
 AC. Baltimore, MD
 AD. Bedford, MA
 AE. Boston, MA
 AF. Detroit, MI
 AG. Minneapolis, MN
 AH. Saint Louis, MO
 AI. Eatontown, NJ
 AJ. Albany, NY
 AK. Cleveland, OH
 AL. Philadelphia, PA
 B. Pittsburgh, PA
 C. Nashville, TN
 D. Arlington, TX
 E. Austin, TX
 F. Dallas, TX
 G. Houston, TX
 H. San Antonio, TX
 I. Salt Lake City, UT
 J. Seatac, WA
 K. Seattle, WA
 L. Shepherdstown, WV
 M. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Please indicate the OIT location(s) you are interested in working at. If you choose a location outside of your local commuting area, you will be responsible for relocation expenses.
 A. Albany, NY
 B. Anaheim, CA
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Aurora, CO
 E. Austin, TX
 F. Cleveland, OH
 G. Davidson, TN
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Detroit, MI
 J. Eatontown, NJ
 K. Hines, IL
 L. Houston, TX
 M. Long Beach, CA
 N. Los Angeles, CA
 O. Murfreesboro, TN
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Orlando, FL
 R. Philadelphia, PA
 S. Pittsburgh, PA
 T. Saint Petersburg, FL
 U. Salt Lake City, UT
 V. San Antonio, TX
 W. Tampa, FL
 X. Washington, DC
 Y. Shepherdstown, WV


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


INSTRUCTIONS: Basic Individual Occupational Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Supervisory IT Specialist, GS-2210-13.

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
- Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
- Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
- Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
- Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


INSTRUCTIONS: Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience understanding, managing, and configuring Networking devices, Servers and Desktop Hardware, software systems applying vulnerability and configuration management, and security management within production and support environments. Knowledge and abilities with Level 4 Monitoring tools with the ability to optimize systems and servers' performance accordingly. Able to inspire, lead, and manage at least 5 full-time staff along with contractors and projects including budgets to achieve mission success.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described above.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Assessment 2
This test evaluates situational judgment and job knowledge. Each question includes potential responses and reflects foundational experience with leadership-level engagement, large organizational support, financial oversight, and potential for advancement.

INSTRUCTIONS: Read each question carefully and choose the most appropriate response based on the scenario described in each question. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
You are tasked with preparing the Budget Execution Director for a meeting with your supervisor and a senior executive on Travel, Training, Supplies and Awards. You receive last-minute financial data revisions from the Financial Back-Office team. What is your course of action?

 Update the materials immediately and inform the Supervisor of the changes during the meeting.
 Cross-check the revisions, update the materials, and notify the Supervisor before the meeting starts.
 Wait until after the meeting to share the updated data.
 Delegate the update task to another team member without follow-up.


2.
While overseeing an Engineering team, reviewing Privacy and Cybersecurity should be dealt with in which way?
 Ensure teams consider Privacy and Cybersecurity into their future planning.
 Wait until you hear more justification of the need prior to implementation.
 Stop working for a week while reviewing all privacy and Cybersecurity concerns.
 Implement Privacy and critical Cybersecurity issues immediately and stage remaining issues.


3.
When designing an updated workflow for a complex database integrated system, in what order should you approach first?
 Network topology, then system design, then database design, then API integration.
 API integration, then system design, then, then network topology, then database design.
 Notify the Director and recommend corrective actions before the report is distributed.
 Postpone the report until you receive further instructions.


4.
What is the primary objective of administering an information systems security program in an organization?

 To protect the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of information systems.
 To improve end-user satisfaction.
 To optimize software performance.
 To reduce IT operational costs.


5.
Which principle is essential for maintaining IT security within an organization?

 Minimizing network latency.
 Applying confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) principles.
 Reducing software development time.
 Enhancing user interface design.


6.
As a supervisor, how would you apply cybersecurity principles to ensure organizational compliance?

 By enhancing hardware performance.
 By ensuring all IT processes align with confidentiality, integrity, and availability requirements.
 By focusing on reducing operational expenses.
 By streamlining application development.


7.
What methods would you use to coach your IT team in problem-solving security-related issues?

 Delegate all responsibility to external consultants.
 Train them in the application of systematic and analytical problem-solving techniques.
 Encourage reliance on standard operating procedures without deviation.
 Focus primarily on software development skills.


8.
When overseeing the daily operations of your unit, what is a critical responsibility as a supervisor?

 Ensuring that agency policies and priorities are strictly followed.
 Managing only the hardware aspects of IT infrastructure.
 Focusing on individual tasks rather than overall unit performance.
 Ensuring the fastest possible implementation of all projects.


9.
As a supervisor, why is it important to design and manage systems with future business requirements in mind?

 It helps in reducing immediate cost.
 It ensures scalability and flexibility to adapt to changing business needs.
 It speeds up the current system operations.
 It increases the complexity of current systems.


10.
How should you handle the need for extensive training and guidance of subordinate staff due to constantly changing technology?

 Only provide training when requested by the staff.
 Implement ongoing training programs to keep the team up-to-date with new technology.
 Outsource all training requirements to external consultants.
 Focus training only on high-level management.


11.
What strategies can be used to eliminate bottlenecks and barriers in IT production?

 Enhance the personal workload of employees.
 Implementing efficient problem-solving methods and promoting team collaboration.
 Ignoring minor issues for larger strategic goals.
 Focusing on long-term projects exclusively.


12.
What should be your approach to developing performance standards and evaluating subordinates' work as a supervisor?

 Evaluate only the outcomes, ignoring the processes.
 Set clear, measurable goals and provide regular feedback on performance.
 Develop vague standards that allow for flexibility.
 Focus only on team performance as a whole, not on individual contributions.


13.
How could you identify training needs and find ways to improve the quality of work in your IT team?

 Waiting for team members to request training.
 Conducting regular assessments and feedback sessions to pinpoint areas for improvement.
 Implementing a one-size-fits-all training program.
 Focusing training solely on new technologies, ignoring foundational skills.


14.
While managing a diverse group of national employees and contractors you notice productivity go down and tension in meetings, how would you best remediate the situation?

 Identify the people complaining and work with them 1-1.
 Coordinate a meeting with the entire team and set ground rules for everyone to collaborate better.
 Meet in smaller groups and tell your boss it will just go away.
 Tell the team who’s boss and punish those who don’t comply appropriately.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙