Position Title
Assistant General Counsel for General Business Law
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
ST-13060986-26-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30% or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Transfer Eligible

Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position
-and-
have completed an initial appointment probation or trial period?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).
Note: NRC employees should select 'No' for this question as excepted service employees.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interchange Agreement Eligible

Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

-AND/OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Health Administration Employee
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) Employee
Tennessee Valley Authority Employee
Federal Aviation Administration Employee
Transportation Security Administration Employee
Americorps Employee
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems: Types of Appointments

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

Note: NRC employees will be considered under a different authority and should answer 'no' to this question.
 Yes
 No


5.

Military Spouse Eligible

Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is eligible for non-competitive appointment of certain military spouses? You are eligible if you: 

Are married to an active-duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days; OR 

Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury; OR 

Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty. 

You are required to support your claim with the documents below: 

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate); AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active-duty service for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter); OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).
For more information, please see Military Spouse Hiring Path.
 Yes
 No


6.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


7.
Peace Corps/VISTA Eligible

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? 
- OR - 
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? 
- OR - 
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reinstatement Eligible

Are you a former Federal Employee who previously held a permanent position and is eligible for reinstatement?

To verify eligibility, you must submit your qualifying SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade; salary; and full performance level.
 Yes
 No


9.
Schedule A Eligible

Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities page.
 Yes
 No


10.
VEOA Eligible

Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:  
served three or more years of continuous active-duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); -OR- 
are entitled to veterans' preference?  
For more information, please review USAJOBS Veterans resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Additional Applicant Information
1.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


2.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-12, GG-11, or N/A for not applicable).


3.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or N/A for not applicable).


4.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


5.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all information submitted with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (including degrees and accomplishments)? Do you understand that the information you provide may be investigated, and that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring you or for termination after you begin work? Additionally, do you acknowledge that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes, I certify and acknowledge the above statements.
 No, I do not certify or acknowledge the above statements.


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position, ES-0905-00, grade level or equivalent pay band. I have a minimum of one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement or equivalent, including thorough knowledge of legal principles and Federal law, including judicial decisions, statutes, executive orders, and government regulations. Substantial experience in interpreting administrative law statutes governing Federal agency activities
 I have no experience in performing these tasks, but I am willing to learn.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out these tasks. I advise and instruct others in carrying out these tasks on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out these tasks in unusually complex situations.


Assessment 2
1.
Select the statement that best describes your education related to this position. To be eligible for this position you must be a graduate of an accredited law school with a J.D., LL.B., or equivalent degree, and you must be an active member in good standing of the Bar of a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia.
 I meet the educational requirements related to this position.
 I do not meet the educational requirements related to this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙