Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ME-12943958-AR-T32-26-047 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current nationwide military/prior members willing and eligible to become National Guard members.  Are you a current military or prior member willing and eligible to become a National Guard member?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Assessment 1
Please complete the following questions.? Each response should be limited to 200 words or less.


1.
What skills do you have in servicing, repairing and maintaining surface maintenance equipment?


2.
What ability do you have to use hand tools and precision measuring equipment such as wrenches, screwdrivers, thickness gauges, and gauge blocks?


3.
What skills do you have in use of diagnostic and test equipment such as tachometers, ohmmeters, pressure gauges, etc.?


4.
What ability do you have to interpret technical manuals, illustrations, specifications, diagrams and schematics to make repairs and modifications?


5.
What ability do you have to troubleshoot malfunctions and determine causes of mechanical problems?


6.
What knowledge of and skill in repairing, overhauling and rebuilding major assemblies and systems of surface maintenance equipment do you have?


7.
What ability do you have to troubleshoot complex malfunctions requiring knowledge of the interaction of several subsystems?


8.
What skills do you have in the use of hand tools and precision measuring equipment such as micrometers, vernier calipers, dial indicators, wrenches and screwdrivers?


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.? I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).? I understand that any information I give may be investigated.? I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙