Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Classification)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCM-26-12986225-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Human Resources Specialist (Classification) position with the IRS - Office of the Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist (Classification) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
When analyzing a newly drafted position description (PD) that contains duties spanning multiple functional areas (e.g., both administrative and technical duties), which OPM principle should you primarily use to determine the correct series and title?
 Assign the series based entirely on the highest-graded duty, regardless of how rarely it is performed.
 Determine the paramount knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform the primary duties of the position.
 Default to a general miscellaneous series (such as GS-0301) to avoid making a specific determination.
 Use the series preferred by the hiring manager to expedite the recruitment process.


3.
Which of the following sources have you utilized for research in your work responsibilities?
 A. Federal HR-related publications (e.g., Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Chief Counsel Directives Manual (CCDM), and/or US Code Title 5).
 B. OPM directives and publications.
 C. Formal set of policies, regulations, standard operating procedures (SOPs), and/or desk guides.
 D. Guide to Processing Personnel Actions (GPPA).
 E. OPM Classification Standards.
 F. None of the above.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience reviewing documents, files, or records for accuracy and completeness:
 I have minimal experience reviewing data or documents for errors.
 I occasionally check my own work for spelling and basic formatting before submission.
 I routinely review forms, applications, or technical reports against a checklist or guide to ensure all required fields and supporting files are accurate and complete.
 I have extensive experience auditing complex tracking systems and correcting errors made by other staff members.
 I do not have experience reviewing documents for errors.


5.
Which statement best describes your experience using Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Position Classification Standards or Job Grading Standards?
 I have no experience or training in using OPM classification standards.
 I have completed training on OPM standards but have not yet applied them independently.
 I routinely use OPM standards to review basic, non-complex position descriptions with guidance from senior staff.
 I independently apply OPM standards to classify a variety of technical, administrative, or professional positions.


6.
From the following list of human resources (HR) systems/applications, indicate all those you have utilized while fulfilling your work responsibilities.
 A. HR Connect or other automated system used for processing and maintaining employee personnel records.
 B. USA Staffing or other automated system used for HR purposes.
 C. eOPF or other similar electronic personnel record-keeping system.
 D. Special programs databases or other system/ database used to maintain records and information.
 E. TIMIS or other automated system used for researching employee and/or personnel data.
 F. None of the above.


7.
Which statement best describes your experience in gathering pertinent data and researching and analyzing HR-related problems to identify significant factors and determine solutions?
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 I performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I performed this task as a regular part of a job. I performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 None of the above.


8.
Which statement best describes your experience providing analytical assistance to identify actual and/or potential HR problems and recommending solutions?
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 I performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I performed this task as a regular part of a job. I performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 None of the above.


9.
A supervisor strongly disagrees with a classification decision you or your team made, insisting the position should be a higher grade. How would you handle this situation?
 Tell the supervisor that the decision is final and cannot be discussed further.
 Agree to change the grade immediately to maintain a good working relationship with the supervisor.
 Listen to the supervisor’s concerns, clearly explain the specific OPM standards and grading criteria used to reach the decision, and consult with a senior specialist if a re-review is needed.
 Refer the supervisor to top agency management without explaining your reasoning.


10.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience serving as a consultant, providing human resource knowledge and/or technical guidance or training to managers, employees, and others?
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 I performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I performed this task as a regular part of a job. I performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 None of the above.


11.
A manager requests a desk audit for an employee, firmly believing the position warrants a GS-11 grade. Your independent evaluation using OPM standards clearly indicates the duties support a GS-09 grade. How should you proceed?
 Change the evaluation to a GS-11 to support the manager's request and maintain a positive working relationship.
 Deliver the GS-09 classification decision via email without a detailed explanation to avoid a prolonged argument.
 Schedule a meeting with the manager to discuss the evaluation, walk through the specific OPM grading criteria used, explain the rationale, and outline any formal appeal options available to them.
 Tell the manager that their understanding of the grading system is incorrect and refuse to discuss the matter further.


12.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙