Position Title
MWR Bowling Center Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13058773 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Bowling Center Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess to meet the basic requirements of the 1101 General Business and industry series?
 I have 1 year of experience that demonstrates progressively responsible administrative, professional, technical work involving knowledge and application of bowling, bowling equipment and facilities, and recreational activities.
 I do not have 1 year of experience that demonstrates progressively responsible administrative, professional, technical work involving knowledge and application of bowling, bowling equipment and facilities, and recreational activities.


2.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with overall operation of a Bowling Center to include lanes, equipment maintenance and repair.

 I have five (5) or more years of experience with overall operation of a Bowling Center to include lanes, equipment maintenance and repair.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with overall operation of a Bowling Center to include lanes, equipment maintenance and repair.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with overall operation of a Bowling Center to include lanes, equipment maintenance and repair.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with overall operation of a Bowling Center to include lanes, equipment maintenance and repair.
 I have no experience with overall operation of a Bowling Center to include lanes, equipment maintenance and repair.


3.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with oversight of a bowling center snack bar operation and/or pro shop.
 I have five (5) or more years of experience with oversight of a bowling center snack bar operation and/or pro shop.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with oversight of a bowling center snack bar operation and/or pro shop.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with oversight of a bowling center snack bar operation and/or pro shop.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with oversight of a bowling center snack bar operation and/or pro shop.
 I have no experience with oversight of a bowling center snack bar operation and/or pro shop.


4.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience with preparing financial plans, budgets, inventories, cost controls, and related records and reports.

 I have five (5) or more years of experience with preparing financial plans, budgets, inventories, cost controls, and related records and reports.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with preparing financial plans, budgets, inventories, cost controls, and related records and reports.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with preparing financial plans, budgets, inventories, cost controls, and related records and reports.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with preparing financial plans, budgets, inventories, cost controls, and related records and reports.
 I have no experience with preparing financial plans, budgets, inventories, cost controls, and related records and reports.


5.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience with training, scheduling work, performance appraisals, counseling personnel, and recommending personnel actions.

 I have five (5) or more years of experience training, scheduling work, performance appraisals, counseling personnel, and recommending personnel actions.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with training, scheduling work, performance appraisals, counseling personnel, and recommending personnel actions.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with training, scheduling work, performance appraisals, counseling personnel, and recommending personnel actions.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with training, scheduling work, performance appraisals, counseling personnel, and recommending personnel actions.
 I have no experience with training, scheduling work, performance appraisals, counseling personnel, and recommending personnel actions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙