Position Title
Director TTC Operations
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12948240-26-BG Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


2.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Assessment 1

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).

 Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).




1.
Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): The General Education and Training Series, 1701, has a minimum qualification entry requirement.
Basic Requirements:
Degree: that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position.

Combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above.

NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.

Do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙