Position Title
Medical Care Transportation Technician - EMT
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12932365-26-DLL Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


THREE Selective Placement Factors (SPF) have been identified for this position. Selective Placement Factors (SPF) are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for the position. Applicants who do not meet the SPF are ineligible for further consideration.


2.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: Medical Care Transportation Technician - EMT must possess and maintain current Basic Life Support Provider (BLS) Certification. I possess this certification. (CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED to receive credit for further consideration).
 Yes
 No


3.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: Medical Care Transportation Technician - EMT must possess a valid/current state issued/certification for eligibility for employment (EMT). I possess this certification (CERTIFICATION REQUIRED to receive credit for further consideration).

 Yes
 No


4.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - Screen-out: I possess a valid state driver's license. (DO NOT provide driver's license. We may not accept pictures. This requirement will be verified during interview).

 Yes
 No


5.
In addition to the English Language Proficiency and Selective Placement Factors above, to qualify for this position at the GS-07 grade level, you must meet one of the following qualification requirements. Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience and/or education to meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-06) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Medical Care Transportation Technician - EMT. Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes applying skill of body systems (e.g., skeletal, muscular, nervous, respiratory, circulatory) to conduct patient assessments and provide emergency patient medical care; operating emergency vehicles and a variety of emergency/medical equipment, tools, supplies; and using communication techniques and equipment to relay information to and from dispatchers and health care providers.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED): I have successfully completed one (1) full year of graduate education directly related to the work of this position. This education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED): I have equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience, described above, to meet total qualification requirements.
 I do not have the experience or education as described in any of the above.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 2
The following statements pertain to the Clinical Data Collection/Documentation competency (Gathers/documents essential and accurate information about patients such as medical history, vital signs, chief complaints, allergies, pertinent health problems, current medications.).


1.
Task: Conducts patient assessments, assesses severity of illness/injury and identifies life threatening problems.
In a primary assessment of an unconscious trauma patient, which of the following actions demonstrates the highest level of priority in identifying a life-threatening problem?

 Asking family members if the patient has any known allergies.
 Documenting the patient's chief complaint as described by a bystander.
 Assessing for and immediately controlling massive external hemorrhage before evaluating the airway.
 Delaying the primary assessment to conduct a detailed head-to-toe examination.


2.
Task: Performs assessments to obtain history, status of patient's neurological system, cardiovascular system, circulatory system, skeletal system, orthopedic system, motor and sensory skills and level of consciousness for the purpose of safe transport.
To obtain the most comprehensive and relevant patient information for safe transport, the EMT should primarily focus on:

 Administering an over-the-counter pain reliever before determining the history.
 Asking only about the patient's personal diet and exercise habits.
 Utilizing the SAMPLE mnemonic to gather patient history and performing a baseline Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) to determine the neurological status.
 Only checking for distal circulation (pulse and capillary refill) in all four extremities.


3.
Task: Perform patient triage and take/records patient's vital signs as needed.
When arriving at a multi-patient incident, the EMT's highest priority task related to triage is to:

 Take and record a complete set of vital signs (BP, Pulse, Respiration) for the first patient encountered.
 Rapidly categorize all victims using a standardized system based on immediate needs (respiration, perfusion, mental status) to assign transport priority.
 Assign the highest priority to the patient who appears to be in the most pain and is yelling loudly.
 Wait for the fire department to finish securing the scene before initiating any patient assessment.


4.
Task: Provide and gather information on the human body structure, function, illnesses and diseases, and the treatment procedure supporting patient charting.
When documenting a lower leg injury for patient charting, the most appropriate way to utilize anatomical knowledge is by:

 Describing the laceration as being 3 cm distal to the patella and documenting the mechanism of injury (MOI).
 Knowing that the brain controls the patient's central nervous system functions.
 Using layman's terms like "boo-boo on the leg" to keep the chart easy to read.
 Stating that the primary goal is to educate the patient about bone density and nutrition.


The following statements pertain to the Emergency Care competency (Recognizes signs of medical emergencies; applies knowledge of basic first-aid principles in responding to emergency situations.).


5.
Task: Administers basic life support care at emergency scene in accordance with established medical standards, which may include providing CPR, and/or drug treatments.
In an adult cardiac arrest scenario, adherence to established medical standards (e.g., AHA BLS) requires the EMT to prioritize which action?

 Initiating high-quality chest compressions at a rate of 100-120 per minute to a depth of at least 2 inches.
 Assisting the patient with their prescribed, life-saving medication (e.g., oral glucose) if protocol allows.
 Immediately performing a detailed secondary assessment to find the cause of the arrest.
 Using an oral airway on a responsive patient who exhibits an intact gag reflex.


6.
Task: Performs invasive and non-invasive procedures on patients with life threatening and non-life-threatening conditions.
For a patient exhibiting signs of life-threatening hemorrhagic shock following a major trauma, the EMT's most appropriate invasive or non-invasive procedure, per protocol, is:

 Removing an impaled object from the patient’s torso to reduce blood loss.
 Auscultating lung sounds to check for a pneumothorax.
 Manually stimulating the patient's sternum to determine their level of pain.
 Applying a trauma dressing and tourniquet proximal to an actively bleeding extremity wound to control hemorrhage.


7.
Task: Operates or utilizes various emergency vehicles and emergency/medical equipment, tools and supplies which may include ambulance, extrication tools, blood pressure cuff, AED, glucose monitor, oxygen terminal, pulse oximetry monitor, medical supplies, radio communications equipment, and general office equipment.
During a patient resuscitation where the patient is pulseless, apneic, and confirmed to be in ventricular fibrillation, the most critical use of emergency equipment is:

 Using the pulse oximetry monitor to confirm oxygen saturation.
 Immediately utilizing the Automated External Defibrillator (AED) to deliver a shock, as directed by the device.
 Confirming the destination hospital using the radio communication system.
 Using an adult-sized blood pressure cuff on a pediatric patient to get a rapid reading.


8.
Task: Prioritizes treatments for patients having multiple problems and employs a variety of established emergency medicine techniques, methods, and equipment.
A patient has both an open fracture of the tibia with significant bleeding, and signs of moderate respiratory distress. Which treatment should be prioritized first?

 Splinting the fracture immediately before addressing the bleeding or breathing.
 Controlling the massive extremity hemorrhage using a tourniquet before performing an airway check and providing oxygen.
 Providing emotional reassurance and comfort to the patient before starting any invasive care.
 Applying a non-rebreather mask at 15 LPM oxygen and then reassessing the patient’s breathing.


The following statements pertain to the Patient Care competency (Knowledge of direct patient care techniques, including activities of daily living (ADLs), ambulating patients, infection control, and emergency response; uses appropriate safety precautions.).


9.
Task: Determines/prioritizes appropriate medical treatment/procedures and need for additional assistance.
An EMT identifies a diabetic patient who is lethargic, diaphoretic, and has a blood glucose reading of 45 mg/dL. The highest priority combination of treatment and resource determination is:

 Giving the patient a lecture on the importance of checking their blood sugar more often.
 Initiating oral glucose administration per protocol and immediately requesting an Advanced Life Support (ALS) intercept.
 Immediately starting an IV line and administering Dextrose (D50) per standing orders. (Note: IV administration is typically outside the EMT-Basic scope).
 Applying a cervical collar and strapping the patient to a long backboard.


10.
Task: Performs a variety of supporting diagnostic duties which include taking, recording and reporting to the supervisor unusual deviations in vital signs.
A patient's systolic blood pressure drops from 115 mmHg to 85 mmHg over a period of three minutes during transport. The EMT's most essential and immediate action is to:

 Document the vital sign change, treat for shock (if appropriate), and immediately notify medical direction and/or the receiving facility of the deviation.
 Perform a new manual blood pressure reading to confirm the reading.
 Wait until arrival at the hospital to mention the new blood pressure reading to the nurse.
 Tell the patient their blood pressure is dangerously low and advise them to seek a new doctor.


11.
Task: Takes appropriate measures to prevent disease transmission or exposure to bodily fluids.
Which action best demonstrates adherence to measures preventing disease transmission from a patient suspected of having an airborne infectious disease?

 Placing used medical waste, including sharps, in the vehicle's regular trash bag.
 Wiping down the exterior of the ambulance with a dry cloth after the patient leaves.
 Wearing standard non-latex gloves and safety glasses during patient contact.
 Donning a fitted N95 respirator mask and standard medical gloves prior to entering the patient's room.


The following statements pertain to the Transportation competency (Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including costs and limits.).


12.
Task: Determines how the patient can be moved and to which medical facility the patient should be transported.
An EMT is transporting a patient with a severe, penetrating abdominal injury from a motor vehicle collision. The most critical decision the EMT must make is:

 Choosing the route with the fewest stop signs to ensure a smoother ride.
 Consulting established trauma protocols to ensure transport is directed to the nearest and most appropriate Level I or Level II Trauma Center.
 Asking the patient which hospital they prefer to go to.
 Deciding whether to use a stair chair or a flexible stretcher to move the patient from the second floor.


13.
Task: Assists in lifting and carrying patients into or out of transport vehicles and into treatment facility.
To ensure patient safety and prevent personal injury while lifting a heavy patient, the EMT should first and foremost:

 Coordinate the lift with all partners, communicate the plan clearly, and lift with the legs, keeping the back straight.
 Attempt to lift the patient alone to show the patient that the EMT is strong and capable.
 Ask the patient to stand up and walk to the stretcher if they are able to slightly bear weight.
 Use the back muscles and twist at the waist to maneuver the patient into the vehicle.


14.
Task: Provides a thorough safety inspection and operator maintenance (e.g., monitoring fluid levels, replacing air filters and interior lights, checking tire pressure, etc.).
As part of the daily readiness check, the most critical vehicle operator maintenance task is:

 Ensuring all interior lightbulbs are decorative and functioning.
 Waiting for the "low oil pressure" warning light to turn red before checking the oil level.
 Performing a thorough walk-around inspection to check tire inflation, fluid levels (oil, coolant), brakes, and ensuring all emergency lighting and siren systems are functional.
 Ensuring the vehicle exterior is washed and the logo is polished.


15.
Task: Ensures that the vehicles are kept clean and neat and decontaminates the vehicles in accordance with Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) established procedures. Following a patient transport involving significant exposure to blood and bodily fluids, the EMT's primary responsibility for vehicle readiness is to:

 Simply replace the linens and reload the disposable supplies.
 Use an approved hospital-grade disinfectant and established MTF protocol to thoroughly clean and decontaminate all exposed surfaces, equipment, and the stretcher.
 Place contaminated sharp objects (syringes) directly into the regular trash bin for ease of disposal.
 Open all vehicle doors and windows to air out the vehicle overnight.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙