Position Title
Lead Medical Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12940246-26-MA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


4.
What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
CITIZENSHIP: Are you a citizen of the United States:

 Yes
 No


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE: Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English (In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English):

 Yes
 No


The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position. BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Applicants applying for this position must meet the entry level basic requirements in addition to the Minimum Requirements for this position. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and/or education below and select the response that best describes you.


3.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
Experience/Education: Select the ONE response that best describes your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Medical Support Assistant. You may only select one response. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all the descriptions, choose the description that is the closest to the level of experience or education that you possess.

 I have six months experience of clerical, office, customer service, or other administrative work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position.
 I have one year of education above high school.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education when combined is qualifying for this position.
 I do not have the education and/or experience mentioned above and therefore does not meet the basic requirements.


4.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, applicants must also meet the Minimum Requirements for this grade level. Carefully read the following description of experience and/or education. Please select the appropriate answer based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.

Grade Requirements - Lead MSA, GS-7: Do you possess one (1) year experience equivalent to the (GS-6) grade level such as: coordination of MSA assignments and workflow found in an interdisciplinary unit; providing daily workload assessments; assigning work; assuring proper staffing coverage; evaluating training records; determining training needs of MSAs; assisting the unit with complex and non-standard procedures, including clinical flow processes related to access to care across multiple clinics, specialties, and/or community resources; ensuring accurate and timely scheduling of appointments; providing guidance to staff members, to include changes in policies and procedures; creating and maintaining employee work schedules; and acting as liaison among MSA staff, patients, and other inter-disciplinary staff to resolve day-today conflicts.
Please note: Your resume must support the response that you select.

 Yes, I do possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level as described above.
 No, I do not possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level as described above.


5.
Can you also demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:

 Advanced knowledge of medical terminology and a wide range of clinical flow processes relating to access to care across multiple clinics, specialties, and/or community resources.
 Ability to utilize numerous advanced patient systems in support of multiple clinics in an interdisciplinary setting.
 Ability to organize work, set priorities, and delegate tasks/responsibilities in order to meet deadlines.
 Skill in communicating with individuals to obtain the desired effect and coordinating with a variety of interdisciplinary care team staff.
 Ability to provide staff development and training.
 Ability to manage staffing requirements, manage workflow priorities, and adjust the flow of work to meet team and patient needs. This includes the ability to follow-up on pending issues and demonstrate an understanding of the impact of incomplete work across multiple clinics. Please note: Your resume must support the response that you select.


6.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do NOT certify the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙