Position Title
GENERAL SUPPLY SPECIALIST (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
CT-12808239-AF-25-091 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 07, 2025 to Oct 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Are you currently employed as a full-time permanent or indefinite personnel, assigned to the 103d LRS of the Connecticut Air National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the narrative below.


1.
If you are a member of the Connecticut Air National Guard, please specify your current duty AFSC, Military Grade and Unit of Assignment; or if you are currently in a different branch of the military, please specify your current Military Grade and Branch of Service.


For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience.  Mark only one response.


2.
Do you possess experience, education or training involving administration of supply management, storage, cataloging, packaging and distribution or other work which provided you with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience.  Mark only one response. (Your resume and any other supporting documentation you wish to provide must clearly substantiate that you currently possess 24 months of Specialized Experience.)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess at least 24 months of demonstrated experience with cost estimates, budgets, or funding management?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience conducting extensive and exhaustive searches for required information; reconstruct records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for supply activities?
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all of the information on the questionnaire and documents attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.  I understand that false or fraudulent information on the questionnaire and documents attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.   I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙