Position Title
TRAINING SPECIALIST (CURRICULUM MANAGER CYBERSECURITY/ INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-27-13082283-P
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current U.S. Citizen applying for this vacancy?
 Yes
 No
3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area. Supporting Documentation: You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil) , a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade. Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No
4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. NOTE : By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer. Supporting Documentation : If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible ?
 Yes
 No
5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. NOTE : By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer. Supporting Documentation : If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement ?
 Yes
 No
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
8.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
11.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?* NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO .
 Yes
 No
12.
Are you a Military Retiree within 180 days following your official retirement date? .
 Yes
 No
13.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.
14.
Where did you learn about the DCSA position for which you are applying?
 Campus event (in-person or virtual)
 In-person hiring event
 Virtual hiring event
 DCSA website
 USAJobs job search
 USAJobs saved search email notification
 DCSA employee
 LinkedIn job posting
 DCSA LinkedIn social media post
 Recruiter LinkedIn post
 Facebook post
 X post
 Handshake post
 School job announcement
 Professional organization
 Conference career fair
 Contacted by a Recruiter
 Other
Training Specialist GG-1712-14
1.
The Training Specialist, 1712 occupation has specific educational requirements which apply to all positions. From the options below, select the one response which describes your educational background. Education above the high school level must have been completed in a U.S. college, university, or other educational institution that has been accredited by one of the accrediting agencies or associations recognized by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts are required at the time of application.
 Degree: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - education or a subject area related to the position to be filled.
 Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s); Supervising or administering a training program; Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results; Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.
2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have specialized experience sufficient to demonstrate that I have acquired all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-13) in the Federal service and am prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position includes: Integrating complex DoW, National Security, and cybersecurity concepts (including Information System Security) into technical training and curriculum baselines; Utilizing instructional design methodologies to design, develop, and deliver Instructor-Led Training (ILT), Virtual Instructor-Led Training (VILT), and corresponding performance support tools; Conducting technical content reviews, training needs analyses, curriculum updates, and generating strategic program change recommendations; Monitoring, analyzing, and translating rapidly evolving DoW, Joint, and cybersecurity policies, directives, and operating procedures into actionable learning objectives.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
3.
Briefly describe your experience with curriculum development. Be sure to include your impact on the curricula.
4.
Please explain your involvement in cybersecurity and/or experience in an information system security role. Be sure to include how that experience has positioned you for a role in training.
5.
Briefly describe which protocols and/or procedures used to manage and accomplish goals.
