Position Title
Flex Tractor Operator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13021548 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Non-Appropriated (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a current, valid driver's license? (you MUST submit a copy of your driver's license with your resume)
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have work experience in operating machinery such as, riding mowers and gas/diesel powered tractors in small, tight spaces and on steep grades?
 I have 2+ years' work experience in the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years' work experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year work experience in the above.
 I have no work experience in the above.


3.
Do you have experience in grounds upkeep and maintenance such as maintaining the irrigation systems at a golf course?
 I have 2+ years' experience in the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years' experience in in the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
Do you have work experience in using power hand tools to clean, maintain and repair golf course grounds, equipment and facilities?
 I have 2+ years' experience in the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years' experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙