Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Lead Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13043569 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Assistant Lifeguard Lead (Waterfront) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Recreation Assistant Lifeguard Lead (Waterfront)
International Life Saving Federation or Red Cross Waterfront
CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Emergency Response through the American Red Cross or equivalent
Blood Borne Pathogens
 Yes I have uploaded all the required unexpired documents to be eligible for this position
 Yes I do have all the required unexpired documents but have not uploaded at this time, but if interviewed will be required to provide proof of certification
 No I do not possess the required unexpired documents


2.
How many years of documented experience as a lifeguard have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a DoD setting
 Two plus years at a civilian sector
 One to Two years in any setting
 One year to six months in any setting
 Less than six months or No documented experience


3.
How many years of documented experience compute charges, disperse change accurately, and prepare reports have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a DoD setting
 Two plus years at a civilian sector
 One to Two years in any setting
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience


4.
How many years of customer service have you documented on your resume?

 Two plus years in a DoD setting
 Two plus years at a civilian sector
 One to Two years in any setting
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙