Position Title
Mobile Sales Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12925355 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Mobile Salesclerk (Canteen Operator) position at PSNS located in Naval Base Kitsap. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.
How many years of combined experience do you have in any of the following areas: retail, sales, customer service, or food service?
 I have no experience with above.
 I have less than a year of combined experience in the above.
 I have 1-2 years of combined experience in the above.
 I have 3-4 years of combined experience in the above.
 I have 5+ years of combined experience in the above.


2.
What is your level of experience with handling a register (POS, credit/debit sales, etc.)?
 Beginner: I have a basic understanding of cash handling and can perform simple tasks under supervision.
 Intermediate: I am proficient in most standard cash handling procedures and can work independently.
 Expert: I possess extensive knowledge and experience in all aspects of cash handling, including best practices and regulatory compliance.
 No knowledge in handling a register.


3.

How would you rate your food service expertise?

 Beginner: I understand the basic concepts but have little practical experience.
 Intermediate: I can perform fundamental food service tasks with some supervision.
 Advanced: I can work independently and handle a variety of duties, including food prep and inventory.
 Expert: I can confidently manage operations and train others.
 No knowledge in food service.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙