Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-12969731-26-OCHCO Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters in the Competitive Service (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard)? who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard) who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read the following descriptions of specialized experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications at the GS-13 grade level for the Human Resources Specialist position. Your resume must support your response that you select.


1.
This question will be used to determine your minimum qualifications to qualify for the Human Resources Specialist, GS-0201-13 grade level. Please select the answer that best fits your experience level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing the following: 1) Independently performing the full range of recruitment and placement activities for highly complex or technical positions; 2) providing consultative and advisory services to managers (including interpreting recruiting and staffing policies and identifying the most appropriate recruitment strategies and special hiring authorities); 3) mentoring and training staff; 4) applying a wide range of HRM theories, principles, laws, rules, regulations, and procedures to identify interrelated problems, draw conclusions, and recommend appropriate courses of action and 5) conducting special projects or comprehensive studies to evaluate and resolve operating issues and problems at multiple organizational levels. Qualifying specialized experience includes but is not limited to 1) Serving as a technical advisor on HR policy issues and 2) Developing and implementing strategic work plans related to the implementation or enhancement of an agency’s HR systems.
 I do not possess at least 1 year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙