Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-NYN-12995735-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_ICTAP%3F
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Albany, NY
 B. Binghamton, NY
 C. Plattsburgh, NY
 D. Syracuse, NY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this Assessment Questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For the following questions, please select the response that BEST describes your specialized experience and/or education. You may select only one response. If you feel that your specialized experience and/or education exceed all the descriptions, choose the description that is the closest level to the specialized experience and/or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-07 Legal Administrative Specialist/Case Manager.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS 05 level in Federal service or equivalent paid/nonpaid experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience is defined as experience working in a legal environment performing routine legal assistance assignments that demonstrate a basic knowledge of litigative procedures. Examples of specialized experience include: assisting attorneys by preparing routine legal documents (e.g., basic motions, notices, subpoenas, proposed orders, or routine correspondence); assisting attorneys with the discovery process, such as by indexing and organizing discovery items received, transmitting discovery productions, maintaining discovery logs, and tracking productions to opposing counsel; assisting attorneys with depositions, hearings, and trial preparations such as by compiling, organizing, and indexing evidentiary exhibits, compiling witness and exhibit lists, and assembling trial notebooks; assisting attorneys with case development and preparation, such as by performing basic legal or factual research or preparing written summaries of evidentiary materials; and assisting attorneys in settlement presentations, depositions, trial preparations, and courtroom presentations, such as by preparing trial exhibits (e.g., charts, graphs, and timelines) and presenting trial exhibits using trial presentation software in court.
 I possess a Bachelor’s Degree or expect to complete the requirements for a Bachelor's degree within the next 9 months AND possess at least one of the following criteria: class standing in the upper third of the graduating class; an overall GPA of 3.0 OR at least a 3.0 based on courses completed during the final two years of your curriculum; a GPA of at least 3.5 based on the average of required courses completed in your major field OR based on the average of required courses completed during the final two years of my curriculum; OR election to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education in a related field (e.g., Criminal Justice; Paralegal Sciences; Law) leading to a Master’s degree or higher. (Note: Education at the graduate level must be in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in C, which when combined equal 100 percent of the requirement. (Note: To calculate your percentage of specialized experience, divide your total number of months of specialized experience by 12. To calculate your percentage of graduate education, divide the total number of your semester hours by 18 or your school’s definition of one year of graduate study. Now, add the two percentages together. The sum of the percentages must equal at least 100%.)
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


2.
Identify the specific experience and/or education from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also, list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-09 Legal Administrative Specialist/Case Manager.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS 07 level in Federal service or equivalent paid/nonpaid experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience is defined as experience, working under supervision and guidance, performing routine litigation support assignments in support of discovery, which require a basic knowledge of processing, review, and/or production of commonly found electronically stored information (ESI). Examples of specialized experience include: managing discovery in a variety of formats, such as by receiving, indexing, and organizing incoming discovery materials, and preparing, transmitting, and tracking discovery productions; assisting attorneys with evaluating discovery or evidentiary materials’ value or relevance to assigned criminal or civil cases; conducting straightforward factual and legal research in support of assigned criminal or civil cases, utilizing legal databases and public sources; drafting routine legal documents and correspondence, such as requests for extensions, letters transmitting discovery, routine notices, and written summaries of witness statements or documentary evidence; assisting attorneys with depositions, hearings, or trial preparations, such as by preparing trial subpoenas, assembling evidentiary exhibits, maintaining witness lists and schedules, and preparing demonstrative exhibits; and supporting attorneys during court proceedings or other live case presentations, such as by using trial presentation software and equipment to display exhibits or demonstratives, maintaining accounting system of exhibits, and managing witnesses.
 I have one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Criminal Justice; Paralegal Sciences; Law): a Master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B.); OR two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: Education at the graduate level must be in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B, which when combined equal 100 percent of the requirement. (Note: To calculate your percentage of specialized experience, divide your total number of months of specialized experience by 12. To calculate your percentage of graduate education, first determine the total number of your graduate hours that exceed 18 semester hours or your school’s definition of one year of graduate study, then divide the total number of your excess semester hours by 18 or your school’s definition of one year of graduate study. Now, add the two percentages together. The sum of the percentages must equal at least 100%. In order to qualify based on a combination, graduate education must be in excess of one full year.)
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


4.
Identify the specific experience and/or education from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also, list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


5.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


You have submitted your answers for the Assessment Questionnaire. If you provided an email address, you will receive a confirmation email upon receipt of this Assessment Questionnaire. If you are determined to be minimally qualified to apply for this position, you will receive an email from the USA Hire system inviting you to take the required USA Hire Assessments within 24-48 hours. Please be sure to monitor your email inbox and any junk/spam mailboxes. Note: If you have previously completed the required USA Hire assessments for any other federal applications within the past year, you may not be required to complete one or more of the assessments associated with this vacancy announcement. Please review the Vacancy Announcement to assure that you have submitted all necessary supporting documents. Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙