Position Title
Board Member, Departmental Appeals Board
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-DAB-SL-26-12920182 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you currently have a full ten (10) years experience as a licensed attorney that includes experience preparing for, participating in, and/or reviewing formal hearings as defined below or trials involving litigation and/or administrative law at the Federal, State or local level.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have appellate or formal hearing experience (either as an adjudicator, litigator, or other participating attorney) defined as proceedings conducted on the record under procedures at least as formal as those prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. §§ 553 through 559.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have prior experience working at or above the GS-15 level or its equivalent with the state or local government, private sector, or non-government organization?
 Yes
 No


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience in appellate or adversarial litigation and adjudication, including your ability to analyze complex legal issues, produce high-quality legal writing, and demonstrate leadership in collaborative legal decision-making environments?
 I have experience in appellate or adversarial litigation in a senior, lead, or adjudicatory role involving complex, high-impact cases requiring interpretation of intricate statutory and regulatory schemes. I have demonstrated judicial temperament in managing proceedings and interacting with parties, witnesses, and counsel. I consistently and effectively master diverse and evolving areas of law and produce authoritative, high-quality legal decisions and written work. I have led teams of attorneys, built consensus on difficult or precedent-setting issues, and actively mentored and developed legal staff.
 I have experience serving as counsel, adviser, or adjudicator in appellate or adversarial legal proceedings and have demonstrated the ability to analyze and apply complex statutory and regulatory frameworks. I produce well-reasoned legal writing, such as briefs, memoranda, or decisions. I have supervised or mentored attorneys and collaborated with peers to resolve legal issues. I demonstrate professionalism, sound judgment, and appropriate demeanor in interactions with parties, witnesses, and counsel.
 I have experience providing legal support or analysis in litigation or administrative matters, including drafting legal documents and applying statutes or regulations. My experience with complex or evolving areas of law is limited, and I have not regularly served in an adjudicatory or lead litigation role. I have had limited responsibility for mentoring others, building consensus, or leading legal teams.
 I do not have the experience described above.


5.
Writing Sample

Candidates are required to submit a writing sample. Your writing sample will be used to evaluate your experience based on the knowledge and skills required for the position.  The writing sample will be reviewed for organization, analysis and discussion, and style and grammar.  The document will also be evaluated to determine whether the writing sample was persuasive and authoritative.   Applicants are encouraged to submit a writing sample that reflects experience that is consistent with the technical qualifications for the position.  The writing sample is subject to a twenty (20) page limit.

 I acknowledge the requirement of the writing sample (20-page limit) and will submit with application.
 I do not wish to submit the writing sample and acknowledge my application will not be considered.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I understand I must upload a resume (not to exceed 2 pages), proof of bar membership, unofficial law school transcripts, and any other supporting documentation by the closing date to receive consideration for this vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


7.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume (not to exceed 2 pages) and accompanying documentation. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge, skill, and abilities as required in the vacancy announcement, including evidence of the Professional Technical Qualifications (PTQs) listed in the announcement.I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No



The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.  Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.  You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.



8.
Constitution

Describe your understanding of and commitment to the Constitution of the United States.



9.
Efficiency

How would you ensure efficiency and effectiveness in government service?



10.
Executive Orders / Policy Implementation

Describe your willingness and ability to implement and follow Executive Orders and agency policies.



11.
Work Ethic

Describe your work ethic and how it contributes to mission accomplishment.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙