Position Title
Supervisory Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12935403-26-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position with the VA as part of the Clinical Engineering team at VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System. Please review the following questions and answer as it pertains to your personal qualifications and abilities.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education, Experience, or Certification.

(1) Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field;

OR

(2) Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience;

OR

(3) Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program;

OR 

(4) Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience;

OR

(5) Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship;

OR

(6) Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience;

OR

(7) Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). *Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment

Do you currently possess one of the degrees/certifications as listed above? *NOTE: you must supply proof of whichever qualifying education/certification/training program to receive credit. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Experience required: In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. Examples of equivalent experience may include working in a specialty BESS assignment such as Information Systems, Intensive Care, or Imaging. The candidate may have also had supervisory or lead experience as a BESS that includes establishing performance standards and evaluating the overall performance of employees. Defining competency requirements and identifying development and training needs. Mentoring and guiding other BESS staff. Taking necessary actions to ensure subordinate personnel maintain and enhance technical expertise. Analyzing data and preparing reports and planning, implementing, and providing technical and project oversight for medical equipment and clinical systems. Ensuring compliance with all applicable standards, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements. Developing, implementing, and monitoring a medical equipment management program; oversee administrative management of resources such as budgets, staffing, purchases, and contracts. Collaborating with executive leadership, clinical, and administrative staff regarding management of medical equipment. Overseeing a medical device protection program. Establishing workload distribution and priorities and revise work schedules to meet workload changes. Managing complex projects involving cross-functional teams and investigating and documenting equipment incidents, damage, and abuse.

To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current health care industry and required using knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) directly applicable to the assignment and associated within the scope of the BESS profession. Experience is only creditable if it was acquired in the health care industry and is either directly related to the position to be filled or a related field (for example, Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer, or Information Technology (IT) Specialist).

Do you possess at least one year of experience as described?
 Yes
 No


The following statements are the required knowledge, skill, and abilities (KSAs) of this position. In addition to the experience requirement, you must also be able to demonstrate each KSA. You will be given an opportunity to reply in narrative format. RESPONSES ARE ENTIRELY OPTIONAL and will only enhance your application. If you do not respond we will be reviewing the remainder of your application package for evidence of the KSAs.


4.
Skill in managing workflow by directing the work of others to accomplish program goals and objectives.


5.
Skill in developing policies to oversee medical equipment and clinical systems.


6.
Skill in managing interpersonal relationships between employees, team leaders, and managers.


7.
Skill in applying standards for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI).


8.
Ability to supervise subordinate staff (for example, plan, organize, delegate, direct, control, and review activities and performance).


9.
Ability to provide guidance on multiple types of medical equipment and clinical systems.


10.
Ability to analyze data to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙