Position Title
IT Specialist (AI)
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
DO-100-26-12845090-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 04, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce?  For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from a position in a Federal agency OTHER THAN the Department of Commerce? 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a United States citizen?

 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Washington, DC


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5


3.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No


5.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No


6.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
* Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
* Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes. I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


7.
How did you learn about this position?
College or University
Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
Conference or Meeting
Professional Organization
Job Fair
Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
USAJOBS search
NIST Careers website
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
None of the above
Other


8.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
NOBBChE Conference
AISES National Conference
Grace Hopper Celebration
Out in STEM (oSTEM) Conference
HBCU Week (NC A&T, Joint School of Nanoscience and Nanoengineering)
Hispanic Association of Colleges & Universities Conference
Annual Biomedical Research Conference for Minoritized Scientists (ABRCMS)
Careers & the disABLED Virtual Fair
CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Job Fair
American Association of the Advancement of Science Annual Meeting
HSI Week (Barry University, Florida International, Miami Dade College)
PWI Week (NYU, Fordham, Columbia)
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
Service Academy Career Conference (SACC)
HBCU Engage
CU Boulder STEM Career Fair
American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Conference
RecruitMilitary Denver Career Fair
High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
Federally Employed Women National Training
ALPFA Convention
League of United Latin American Citizens Convention
American Chemical Society (ACS) Fall 2025 Conference
BIG National Training Institute
TAPIA Conference
Atlanta University Center Consortium (AUCC) Career Fair
HSI Week (UNT and UTA)
Asian American Engineer of the Year Awards
National Organization for the Professional Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers (NOBBChE) Conference
Not applicable


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 (ZP-III at NIST) or equivalent grade level as described in the vacancy announcement?  The experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume.

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 (ZP-IV at NIST) or equivalent grade level as described in the vacancy announcement?  The experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙