Position Title
Test Operations and Maintenance Supervisor-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-470116-12837496-JSB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 21, 2025 to Saturday, December 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for an Operations and Maintenance Supervisor, WS-4701-16 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating. 



1.
Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an Test Operations and Maintenance Supervisor, WS-4701-16 without more than normal supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.
 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of a Test Operations and Maintenance Supervisor and exercise technical and administrative supervision over subordinate supervisors and workers in accomplishing trades and labor Work of the Manufacturing & Repair (Sheet-metal, Welding, Machine shops), Sled Readiness, Rail Maintenance, Survey Elements.
 I am able to perform the full range of a Test Operations and Maintenance Supervisor while under minimal supervision to include determine the number and types of workers needed, assign work to subordinates, direct sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and provide technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Participate with employees in the development of performance plans, advise employees of performance expectations, provide feedback on strengths and weaknesses, and write scheduled appraisals for subordinate employees/supervisors. Take positive action to implement affirmative action/EEO initiatives identified in the installation Affirmative Employment Plan.
 I am able to perform the common Test Operation and Maintenance Supervisor tasks under normal supervision determine the number and types of workers needed, assign work to subordinates, direct sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and provide technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes and advise employees of performance expectations.
 I am able to perform the simple tasks of a Test Operations and Maintenance Supervisor under close supervision supporting higher level workers performing simple and routine duties such as take positive action to implement affirmative action/EEO initiatives identified in the installation Affirmative Employment Plan.
 I do not have any experience as a Test Operations and Maintenance Supervisor.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.



2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙