Position Title
Field Office Manager
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
FIELD OPS-26-IMP-12914538 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Government Accountability Office?
This includes Career/Career-Conditional employees serving on a non-temporary appointment. This does not include employees on temporary or term appointments.

To determine if you are eligible, your most recent SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action form should reflect:
career or career-conditional, Tenure of 1 or 2 in box 24 AND
status in the excepted service, Position Occupied of 2 in box 34.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) with your application.
Your SF-50 must include your position title, pay plan/series/band and tenure. Please be aware that award SF-50's may not include this pertinent information. If your last SF-50 is an award SF-50, please additionally submit the next most recent non-award SF-50 that does include the above fields.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Dallas, TX
 D. Norfolk, VA
 E. Seattle, WA


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Will you meet or exceed the 52 weeks of specialized experience requirement (as described in this vacancy announcement) by the effective date of promotions?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please provide a narrative response describing your potential to meet GAO's expectations for demonstrating resource stewardship in Field Operations.


3.
Please provide a narrative response describing your potential to meet GAO's expectations for managing employee performance and development in Field Operations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙