Position Title
30 Percent Disabled Veteran Repository 2026 for Department of Energy (HQ Offices only)
Agency
Department of Energy - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
30-DV-2026-12889044 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:

--you have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
--you are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/  

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 K. Berkeley, CA
 L. Menlo Park, CA
 M. Golden, CO
 N. Grand Junction, CO
 O. Westminster, CO
 P. Washington, DC
 Q. Idaho Falls, ID
 R. Chicago, IL
 S. Lemont, IL
 T. Warrenville, IL
 U. Ames, IA
 V. Lexington, KY
 W. Paducah, KY
 X. New Orleans, LA
 Y. Germantown, MD
 Z. Weldon Spring, MO
 AA. Las Vegas, NV
 AB. Plainsboro, NJ
 AC. Albuquerque, NM
 AD. Carlsbad, NM
 AE. Los Alamos, NM
 AF. Upton, NY
 AG. West Valley, NY
 AH. Cincinnati, OH
 AI. Piketon, OH
 B. Portsmouth, OH
 C. Albany, OR
 D. Pittsburgh, PA
 E. Aiken, SC
 F. Oak Ridge, TN
 G. Moab, UT
 H. Hanford, WA
 I. Richland, WA
 J. Morgantown, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
9
11
12
13
14
15


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position may have pre-employment requirements and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, possession of, and the ability to obtain and maintain these requirements and conditions.


1.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


2.
Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments


4.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


6.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you currently receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for FERS or CSRS service as a retired U.S. Federal civilian employee?
 Yes, I understand that if selected I will need to provide a copy of my annuitant statement from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and my salary may be reduced by the amount of my annuity.
 No, I am not a Federal annuitant.


8.
When this departmental element completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists within the Department of Energy who are hiring for similar positions. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other departmental elements within the Department of Energy. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 I only want to be considered by this departmental element within the Department of Energy. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional departmental elements within the Department of Energy.


9.
I understand this position may be covered by a bargaining unit. Bargaining unit will vary by departmental element, grade, and/or location.
 Yes
 No


10.
I understand that this is NOT a remote position and that I will be required to report to the office a certain number of days per pay period.
 Yes, I understand and still want to be considered for this position.
 No, I am only interested in remote work and no longer want to be considered for this position.


11.
Since this is a repository and vacancies may be from different areas of the Department of Energy the position may require the incumbent to submit a Financial Disclosure Statement, OGE-450, Executive Branch Personnel Confidential Financial Disclosure Report upon entering the position and annually (5CFR Part 2634, Subpart I USOGE, 6/08).  Are you willing to accept a position with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


12.
Since this is a repository and vacancies may be from different areas of the Department of Energy the position may be a Testing Designated Position (TDP) subject to applicant testing and random drug testing.  Applicants tentatively selected for appointment to this position will participate in drug urinalysis testing, unless currently occupying a TDP within the Department of Energy in accordance with Department's Order for the Federal Substance Abuse Program (DOE O 343.1).  Are you willing to accept a position that requires a pre-employment and random drug urinalysis test?
 Yes
 No


13.
Since this is a repository and vacancies may be from different areas of the Department of Energy the position may be included in the Department of Energy's Technical Qualification Program (TQP).  If selected for such a position, you will be required to meet core, position, and site-specific technical qualification standards within a reasonable period of time (typically from 12 to 18 months) from the date of placement in the position.  Failure to meet this requirement may result in removal.  Are you willing to accept a position with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


14.
TERM - Since this is a repository and vacancies may be from different areas of the Department of Energy the position may be a Term appointment.  Term appointments are non-status, nonpermanent appointments of limited duration of more than 1 year, but not more than 4 years.  The appointment to a term position does not confer eligibility for promotion, reassignment, or transfer to other positions or the ability to be non-competitively converted to permanent employment.  Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


15.
TEMP - Since this is a repository and vacancies may be from different areas of the Department of Energy the position may be a Temp appointment.  Temporary appointments are non-status, nonpermanent appointments for a specified period not to exceed 1 year.  The appointment may be extended up to a maximum of 1 additional year (24 months of total service).  The appointment to a temporary position does not confer eligibility for promotion, reassignment, or transfer to other positions or the ability to be non-competitively converted to permanent employment.  Would you accept a temporary position?
 Yes
 No


16.
Please select all of the series you are interested in being considered for.  Please note that some series may have education requirements.  If you want to know more about a specific series, you can go to General Schedule Qualification Standards to find additional information.
 A. Occupational Series -- 0000 - 0099 - Miscellaneous Occupations
 B. Occupational Series -- 0100 - 0199 - Social Science, Psychology, and Welfare
 C. Occupational Series -- 0200 - 0299 - Human Resources Management
 D. Occupational Series -- 0300 - 0399 - General Administrative, Clerical, and Office Services
 E. Occupational Series -- 0400 - 0499 - Biological Sciences
 F. Occupational Series -- 0500 - 0599 - Accounting and Budget
 G. Occupational Series -- 0600 - 0699 - Medical, Hospital, Dental, and Public Health
 H. Occupational Series -- 0700 - 0799 - Veterinary Medical Science
 I. Occupational Series -- 0800 - 0899 - Engineering and Architecture
 J. Occupational Series -- 0900 - 0999 - Legal and Kindred
 K. Occupational Series -- 1000 - 1099 - Information and Arts
 L. Occupational Series -- 1100 - 1199 - Business and Industry
 M. Occupational Series -- 1200 - 1299 - Copyright, Patent, and Trade-Mark
 N. Occupational Series -- 1300 - 1399 - Physical Sciences
 O. Occupational Series -- 1400 - 1499 - Library and Archives
 P. Occupational Series -- 1500 - 1599 - Mathematics and Statistics
 Q. Occupational Series -- 1600 - 1699 - Equipment, Facilities, and Service
 R. Occupational Series -- 1700 - 1799 - Education
 S. Occupational Series -- 1800 - 1899 - Inspection, Investigation, Enforcement, and Compliance
 T. Occupational Series -- 1900 - 1999 - Quality Assurance, Inspection, and Grading
 U. Occupational Series -- 2000 - 2099 - Supply
 V. Occupational Series -- 2100 - 2199 - Transportation
 W. Occupational Series -- 2200 - 2299 - Information Technology Management


17.
I understand that this announcement is being used as a repository only.  I also understand that I will not receive regular updates regarding application status and if referred to a hiring manager for consideration, I may or may not be contacted.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙