Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-13032473-26-MA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Engineer position with the VA  Palo Alto Healthcare System. Please answer each question. Leaving an answer unanswered to any of the questions below will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I am a citizen of the United States. NOTE: Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens of the United States.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination/evaluation, TB test, and other medical related requirements if required.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-7 Qualifications:
All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level. OR, Bachelor's degree or higher in Engineering OR, Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree not listed below.

To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time. OR, (2) Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree not listed above.
 I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-6 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-7 Biomedical Engineer or have a Bachelor's degree or higher in Engineering OR, Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor’s degree not listed above.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


5.
GS-9 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level. OR, Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study. OR, Bachelor's degree, plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, provided the applicant's total background demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-9  level assignment.In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSA's:
Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-7 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-9 Biomedical Engineer.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


6.
GS-11 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level. OR, Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering OR, Bachelor's degree, plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study.In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-9 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-11 Biomedical Engineer.
 I do not possess this experience.


7.
GS-12 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level.In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to conduct a medical equipment management or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies
Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and TJC requirements.
Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
 I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-11 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-12 Biomedical Engineer.
 I do not possess this experience.



RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title - Duties (Be as detailed as possible) - Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or Part-Time status (include hours worked per week).

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcripts are accepted.

LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER - You must submit a copy of your license/Certification listed with your application.

SF-50 REMINDER - Notification of Personnel Action (For Transfer/Reinstatement/Current/Former Federal employees) must submit a copy of your latest/last SF-50B (showing position, grade, step and tenure). Submit at least two (2) SF-50s to show a timeline of your employment.

VETERAN'S DOCUMENTS REMINDER - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

OTHER DOCUMENTS REMINDER (Applicants are not required, but highly encouraged to submit the following document): VA Form 10-2850c - Application for Associated Health Occupations / OF-306 - Declaration of Federal Employment. This form will be used to determine your acceptability for Federal employment.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙