Position Title
CIVIL ENGINEER - DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
FERC-OEP-DHA-26-13079313
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 Los Angeles, CA
 Sacramento, CA
 San Diego, CA
 San Francisco, CA
 Denver, CO
 Chicago, IL
 Indianapolis, IN
 Louisville, KY
 Detroit, MI
 Minneapolis, MN
 Kansas City, MO
 Saint Louis, MO
 Las Vegas, NV
 Cleveland, OH
 Columbus, OH
 Salt Lake City, UT
 Milwaukee, WI
2.
Select the option that best reflects how you first learned about this vacancy.
 A job search platform (not USAJobs)
 Referral from a FERC employee
 University or Professional Career Fair
 FERC Careers on Social Media (LinkedIn, X, Facebook and/or Instagram)
 FERC Website (www.FERC.gov)
 Email from a FERC Recruiter
 USAJOBS Search
 Other
3.
Based on your selection above, please provide additional information (which website, name of the FERC employee, which career fair, which social media page, etc).
4.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No
5.
Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)?
 Yes
 No
6.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.
 Yes
 No
7.
Does the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission employ any member of your family? Family is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.
 Yes
 No
8.
Please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed, and location if known.
9.
Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal annuity? (Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.)
 Yes
 No
10.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
11.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
12.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
13.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
14.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
15.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
GS-0810-13 Civil Engineer MQ
1.
Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position.
 Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one or more program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus AND courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 Combination of education and experience -- The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. 2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. 4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field.
 I do not possess the basic requirements, as described above.
.
Review the specialized experience statement and complete the corresponding questions.
2.
Specialized experience is defined as: Experience applying a civil engineering discipline (structural, hydrologic, hydraulic, geotechnical, or engineering geology) in the investigation, design, construction, operation, or maintenance of an infrastructure facility, and conducting inspections of dams.
2a.
In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer (e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy).
3.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more specialized experience at or equivalent to the responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described.
4.
For which Region do you want to be considered? Only one Region of interest may be selected.
 By selecting the Chicago Regional Office, you agree to live within 100 drivable miles of the following cities: Chicago, IL, Cleveland, OH, Louisville, KY, Columbus, OH, Milwaukee, WI, Detroit, MI, Minneapolis, MN, Indianapolis, IN, St. Louis, MO, and Kansas City, KS.
 By selecting the San Francisco Regional Office, you agree to live within 100 drivable miles of the following cities: Denver, CO, Las Vegas, NV, Los Angeles, CA, Sacramento, CA, Salt Lake City, UT, San Diego, CA, San Francisco, CA.
