Position Title
Cook Leader
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12859747 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Cook Leader position at All-American Restaurant located in Naval Base Kitsap. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.
Please select the following as it relates to your experience in supervising food service staff (i.e. cook, servers, hosts).
 Expert - Advanced knowledge in managing large team, conduct performance evaluations and complex employee relations.
 Intermediate - Experience with supervising a small team and able to handle minor disciplinary issues.
 Entry - Limited or no formal supervisory experience, able to delegate simple task under direct supervision.
 No experience in supervising food service staff.


2.
Please select the following as it relates to your experience in preparing large quantities of food in industrial or restaurant setting:
 Expert - Advanced knowledge in developing/modifying recipes for large quantities and managing food production efficiently and safely.
 Intermediate - Comfortable with independently preparing dishes from established recipes, comfortable operating standard kitchen equipment, and some experience with menu planning/scaling recipes.
 Entry - Able to conduct basic food prep tasks, limited experience with volume cooking.
 No experience in preparing large quantities of food in industrial or restaurant setting.


3.
This position requires you to obtain a Health Card prior to the first day of work. Are you able to meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙