Position Title
FOOD SERVICE WORKER SUPERVISOR
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-13045315-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Food Service Worker Supervisor, WS-7408-04, position with the Department of the Defense, Defense Health Agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Food Service Worker Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Food Service Worker Supervisor duties. I am skilled in explaining work requirements, methods, and procedures. I am able to instruct subordinates on new procedures and provide assistance when problems arise. I can identify training needs to ensure employees are educated on regulations and techniques; conduct corrective interviews with employees; and refer disciplinary problems to the supervisor. I am skilled in ensuring subordinates operate kitchen equipment according to established usage and safety instructions; and ensuring that adequate materials and equipment are available in the ward pantries. I am capable of selecting workers and assigning tasks to be performed. I am an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Food Service Worker Supervisor duties. I am knowledgeable in explaining work requirements, methods, and procedures. I am capable of instructing subordinates on new procedures and providing assistance when problems arise. I am able to identify training needs to ensure employees are educated on regulations and techniques. I can conduct corrective interviews with employees and refer disciplinary problems to the supervisor. I am able to ensure subordinates operate kitchen equipment according to established usage and safety instructions. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Food Service Supervisor duties. I can explain work requirements, methods, and procedures. I am able to instruct subordinates on new procedures and provide assistance when problems arise. I am capable of identifying training needs to ensure employees are educated on regulations and techniques. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Food Service Worker Supervisor duties or I have received training on explaining work requirements, methods, and procedures; instructing subordinates on new procedures; and providing assistance when problems arise.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙