Position Title
Physicist
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
CTL-672-26-12890056-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


For this announcement, you MUST select one of the eligibilities below. If you do not select an eligibility, you will receive no further consideration for this position. The eligibilities determine the way you wish to be considered and the rules for that consideration. More information on consideration rules can be found here: www.nist.gov/careers/job-search/vacancy-information#process and review our required documents here: https://www.nist.gov/careers/applying-jobs-required-forms


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce?  For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from a position in a Federal agency OTHER THAN the Department of Commerce? 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a United States citizen?

 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No


2.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
* Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
* Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes. I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


4.
How did you learn about this position?
College or University
Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
Conference or Meeting
Professional Organization
Job Fair
Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
USAJOBS search
NIST Careers website
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
None of the above
Other


5.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
Student Veterans of America National Conference
Maryland Community College Week
Colorado Trade School Week
Maryland Trade School Week
Colorado Community College Week
American Physical Society Global Physics Summit
Colorado State School Week
Maryland State School Week
Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineering Annual Conference & Expo
RecruitMilitary Fair
SkillsUSA National Leadership & Skills Conference
Disabled American Veterans Career Fair
Society for the Advancement of Biology Education Research Annual Meeting
High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
Service Academy Career Conference
American Chemical Society Meeting
American Legion National Convention
DC Religious School Week
Denver Religious School Week
Not Applicable


MHP Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How do you meet the BASIC qualification requirements for this position?
 I have a degree in physics; or a related degree that included at least 24 semester hours in physics. Coursework included a fundamental course in general physics in addition to courses in any two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in physics totaling at least 24 semester hours, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Coursework included a fundamental course in general physics in addition to courses in any two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 None of the above


2.
How do you meet the qualification requirements for the ZP-III?
 I have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 (ZP-II at NIST) or equivalent grade level as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙