Position Title
Clinical Perfusionist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-13015515-26-AM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Perfusionist GS-0601-12 position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Your responses are subject to verification. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a US. Citizen?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Candidates must hold a degree in perfusion as described below. Please indicate your education with the most suitable response.

NOTE: The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed.

 Bachelor?s or master?s degree in perfusion from a program in the United States or Canada accredited by the CAAHEP or EQualTM Canada. and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team.
 Bachelor?s or master?s degree in addition to a post-baccalaureate certificate in perfusion from a program accredited by CAAHEP or the EQualTM Canada. semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Board Certification: Persons hired or reassigned to CP positions in VHA must be board-certified in the field of clinical perfusion as a Certified Clinical Perfusionist by the ABCP. The board certification must be current, and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education.

Do you meet the above requirement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Grade Level Requirements- Clinical Perfusionist, GS 12: Experience.

In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must have at least one year of CP experience equivalent to the next lower grade, GS-11:
Employees at this grade level practice independently, seeking guidance when necessary, have the qualifications to exhibit exceptional clinical skills and consistently demonstrate a high-level of expertise in diagnosing and treating seriously ill, multi-symptomatic patients. CPs at this level demonstrate a comprehensive, professional understanding of perfusion clinical practice and the proper application of perfusion techniques, while exhibiting the qualifications to perform more complex procedures requiring skills and competency beyond that expected in the previous grade. CPs at this level have extensive working knowledge of extracorporeal technology. At this level, CPs work collaboratively with physicians in the care of patients by autonomously managing and conducting cardiopulmonary bypass to provide complete life support during any 7 medical situation where it is necessary to support the patient's cardiopulmonary function. Full performance CPs independently formulate a perfusion plan of action which includes multiple tasks and priorities including review of pre- procedure patient history, pre-operative consults and clinical findings. They assist the surgeon by independently developing perfusion treatment strategies for specialty populations and providing associated specialized perfusion services (which may include isolated limb infusion, isolated limb perfusion, left heart bypass, liver bypass, thermogenic lavage, blood component therapy, platelet gel/sequestration, aquapheresis, non-differentiated progenitor cell harvest, acute normovolemic hemodilution, organ procurement and organ preservation). They work on-call independently for extended periods with no back up relief. CPs at this level may provide clinical oversight and consultation for lower graded perfusionists and medical center staff within the CP's scope of practice and its potential applications in other medical, surgical, and specialty areas. They may also participate in collaborative research and adjunctive therapies

Do you possess the experience as described above?

 Yes
 No


5.
Grade Level Requirements- Clinical Perfusionist, GS 12: Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

a. Ability to apply the principles of program management and oversight required to develop program goals and objectives, administer and monitor programs, evaluate program outcomes/accomplishments, set and redefine priorities and implement effective solutions as needed to present findings and 9 recommendations to the appropriate management officials.

b. Ability to provide oversight, judgement and management of the application of clinical perfusion to patient care, organization processes and/or systems and long/short range goals, with a focus on delivering patient care and achieving program outcomes.

c. Expert level of knowledge of best practice in the perfusion profession.

d. Ability to validate or identify barriers to safe effective care, and manage all aspects of clinical perfusion, technical, fiscal, and administrative including daily assignments and call schedule preparation.

e. Ability to serve as a liaison, interfacing with other departments to incorporate the expertise of all disciplines in a comprehensive, integrated approach to patient care.

f. Ability to develop, coordinate, review organizations and accrediting agencies, and manage a perfusion regulatory program including follow-up actions to ensure departmental compliance with regulatory agencies as required.

Do you possess the knowledge, skills and abilities as described above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙