Position Title
Power Plant Trainee I
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-27-13084786- DHA
Open Period
Oct 07, 2026 to Oct 20, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only- RG 59372 13084786 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Trainee I position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform duties as a Power Plant Trainee I.
 I have independently performed all of the following duties: (1) Replacing parts, test operation, removing sub-assemblies from complex equipment, etc., and assisting with the installation, maintenance, repair, or operation activities. (2) Conducting visual checks for damage, and recognizing and reporting conditions such as bent, broken, or missing parts; (3) Reading and interpreting instructions, specifications, blueprints, diagrams, drawings, manuals and other technical information pertinent to hydroelectric power plant operation, maintenance and repair; and (4) utilizing office automation equipment to prepare correspondence, documents and networked, and stand-alone computer systems equipped with electronic mail, calendar, graphics, and word processing programs.
 I have performed and/or received training in the following duties: 1) utilizing hand tools to perform routine maintenance; 2) maintaining care of equipment involving cleaning, greasing, or painting parts; (3) and utilizing office automation equipment to prepare correspondence, documents and networked, and stand-alone computer systems equipped with electronic mail, calendar, graphics, and word processing programs.
 I have limited experience performing the majority of the following duties: 1) utilizing hand tools to perform routine maintenance; 2) maintaining care of equipment involving cleaning, greasing, or painting parts; (3) and utilizing office automation equipment to prepare correspondence, documents and networked, and stand-alone computer systems equipped with electronic mail, calendar, graphics, and word processing programs. However, I am interested, motivated, and readily available to perform routine maintenance duties related to this position. I am able to follow instructions provided by higher level employees and adhere to safety rules.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks utilizing hand tools to perform routine maintenance or I have received training on this type of work.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
