Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13001055 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-13: You must have one (1) year of specialized experience that has equipped you with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service, public or other private sectors.

Specialized experience includes assisting with management consulting work for federal government programs to improve operations and results of those programs.

Examples of such experience could include:
- Experience in consulting practices such as project management, facilitation, problem definition, project scoping, process mapping, data analysis tools and techniques; OR
- Experience exercising project management responsibility for engagements and studies related to analyzing and improving organization-wide or division-level programs and processes, including but not limited to business processes, program policies, and/or systems processes in light of long- and short-range organizational goals.; OR
- Experience in project and program management, written and oral communications, meeting and group facilitation, client management, problem-solving techniques, and organizing large stakeholder meetings and events.


1.
Do you meet the Specialized Experience as stated in the Vacancy Announcement?
 YES
 NO


2.
Please identify the job title(s) and dates of position(s) where this experience is documented in your resume.


You will now be asked to complete a second assessment comprised of two narrative questions. There is a 2,500-character limit on each response. Please allow sufficient time to complete before midnight on the close date of the announcement. The narrative responses are expected to take one hour, at a minimum. Non-detailed and answers such as N/A, See Resume, etc. will be deemed ineligible.

Please do not share this link with anyone else, as this exclusive link is for you to complete your application. You may need to copy and paste the link into your browser.You will need to click on the APPLY button on the announcement and go through the 5 steps in USA Jobs to get to the narrative questions.

Exclusive Link:  https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/876474800


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙