Position Title
MILITARY & FAMILY READINESS SPECIALIST (T5) (MERIT) (INDEFINITE)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13000236-AR-26-171 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to each of the following questions. For each question, choose the response that best represents your eligibility, employment and skills. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your uploaded resume, documents and information provided by your references.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position is open to current on board federal technician employed by the MN Army or Air National Guard. Are you a current on-board employee with the MN ARNG or ANG? An SF-50 MUST be provided with your application.

 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your specialized work experience as relevant to the position of Military and Family Readiness Specialist, GS-0301-09. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)?
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-07) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc) and is described in detail in my resume. Applicants must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management. Experience developing administrative procedures.
 A master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and at least 1 full year of graduate level education to meet qualification requirements.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education described above.


3.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your general experience as relevant to the position of Military and Family Readiness Specialist, GS-0301-09. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)?
 Experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems
 I meet a combination of Specialized experience and education or education to meet the requirements.
 I do not meet the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, Social Worker. Security Specialist, etc)
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste the PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
Employer's name and address
Supervisor's name and contact information
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
High school graduation date, if applicable
AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: For each following question, please use the narrative text box to best describe your experience and/or training for that question.


5.
In detail, explain how your specialized experience meets the following: 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level of GS07 or equivalent in the 0301 Military and Family Readiness field.


6.
In detail, explain your experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration.


7.
In detail, explain your experience that shows progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled and experience using computer and automation system.


8.
In detail, explain experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of a Military Family Readiness Specialist.


9.
In detail, explain how your experience meets the requirement of having a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management as well as experience developing administrative procedures.


10.
In detail, explain your experience compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information.


11.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙