Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Customer Support/Network Services)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-VT-13028946-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_ICTAP%3F
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
I have Information Technology (IT) related experience in the federal service or private or public sector demonstrating the following five (5) competencies, as defined:
• Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
• Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
• Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations.
• Reasoning - Identifies rules, principles, or relationships that explain facts, data, or other information; analyzes information and makes correct inferences or draws accurate conclusions.
• Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.

 Yes, I have the basic experience as described in the above statement.
 No, I do not have the basic experience as described in the above statement.


2.
You must have the knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies which demonstrate the likelihood of performing successfully the duties of the position and are related to the work of the position to be filled. Such demonstratable knowledge, skills, and abilities/competences may be typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.
To qualify at the GS-07 level, you must have Information Technology (IT) related experience in the federal service or private or public sector demonstrating the following five (5) competencies at the proficiency level indicated:
• Attention to Detail - With guidance, competency applied in somewhat difficult situations, demonstrating familiarity with IT concepts and processes.
• Customer Service - With guidance, competency applied in somewhat difficult situations, demonstrating familiarity with IT concepts and processes.
• Interpersonal Skills - With guidance, competency applied in somewhat difficult situations, demonstrating familiarity with IT concepts and processes.
• Reasoning - With extensive guidance, competency applied in the simplest situations, demonstrating awareness IT concepts and processes.
• Teamwork - With guidance, competency applied in somewhat difficult situations, demonstrating familiarity with IT concepts and processes.

 Yes, I have Information Technology (IT) related experience in the federal service or private or public sector demonstrating the following five (5) competencies at the proficiency level indicated above.
 No, I do not have Information Technology (IT) related experience in the federal service or private or public sector demonstrating the following five (5) competencies at the proficiency level indicated above.


3.
You must have the knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies which demonstrate the likelihood of performing successfully the duties of the position and are related to the work of the position to be filled. These knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies are normally attained through the equivalent of one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position being filled but may now be obtained through other means. Such demonstratable knowledge, skills, and abilities/competences may be typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.
Specialized Experience: To qualify at the GS-09 level, you must possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in Federal service. Specialized experience is defined performing the following types of duties: resolving recurring software and hardware problems; providing technical and advisory information technology assistance to an organization.

 Yes, I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in Federal service as described above.
 No, I do not possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in Federal service as described above.


4.
You must have the knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies which demonstrate the likelihood of performing successfully the duties of the position and are related to the work of the position to be filled. These knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies are normally attained through the equivalent of one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position being filled but may now be obtained through other means. Such demonstratable knowledge, skills, and abilities/competences may be typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.
Specialized Experience: To qualify at the GS-11 level, you must possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in Federal service. Specialized experience is defined providing IT customer support in troubleshooting, recovering, and resolving recurring software/hardware problems; providing user training and assistance on a variety of routine applications; assisting in the configuration, installation, and maintenance of networked systems including hubs, routers, switches, bridges, servers, and related hardware; and assisting in network monitoring and management.

 Yes, I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in Federal service as described above.
 No, I do not possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in Federal service as described above.


5.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙