Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13023392 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for a Recreation Assistant Lifeguard position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Do you hold a current certification for the following 1) Lifeguard Certification, 2) CPR for Professional Rescuers, 3) First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator and 4) Blood Borne Pathogens
 Yes I have all of the above documented and will be required to show proof of these certifications at the time of the interview
 No I do not have all of the above certifications or no documentation provided on resume


2.
To be qualified for the NF02 position, you must upload your professional certifications ( 1) Lifeguard Certification, 2) CPR for Professional Rescuers 3) First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator and 4) Blood Borne Pathogens
 Yes I have uploaded my professional certifications
 No I have not uploaded my professional certifications but will provide proof of certification at time of interview
 No I have not uploaded my professional certifications because I do not currently have the required professional certifications


3.
My working or volunteer experience as a lifeguard can be best described as:
 1+ years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or no documentation of experience


4.
How much experience cleaning and maintaining aquatic facilities have you documented on your resume?
 1+ years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or no documentation of experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙