Position Title
MATERIALS HANDLER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12862368-AR-26-018 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 08, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E8?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E1 - E8.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E1 - E8.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which demonstrates the ability to compare item identification against receiving reports and issue request forms; skill in using hand trucks, dollies, and other equipment to move stock; ability to use hammers, pliers, and other hand tools; and to follow oral and written instructions.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-06: Do you posses 6 months experience or training in receiving, packaging, and preparation for shipment. Experience in compiling reports, overall warehouse planning, documentation requirements, and accepted warehousing methods, procedures, and techniques. Experience in setting up and rotating storage locations considering factors such as life expectancy, available space, product turnover, etc
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe your experience in performing a full range of warehousing activities, from receiving and storing to selecting and shipping materials. In your description, please include your experience with using inventory management systems (like STAMIS) to track materials, your role in planning warehouse storage configurations, and how you ensure accountability and documentation for all items.



4.

This position involves coordinating shipments and leading warehouse projects. Provide an example of a time you were responsible for a special project, such as relocating a major commodity or setting up a new storage area. How did you coordinate incoming and outgoing shipments, schedule personnel to meet priorities, and ensure a smooth workflow? 



5.

Detail your experience with identifying, examining, and classifying a wide variety of materials, including items that may have been damaged or have inconsistent shipment information. Explain the process you follow to determine the serviceability of property, how you identify stock numbers, and the steps you take when you discover defective material, including preparing statements or routing items for technical inspection.



6.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙