Position Title
Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13005992-26-HS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


3.
Have you successfully completed a program in therapeutic radiologic technology, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's or higher degree accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (ED) AND the subsequent completion of a 12-month ED accrediting body-approved program in therapeutic radiologic technology?
Note: Transcript must be submitted as part of your application.

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-10 or higher grade level on January 15, 2021, and have been continuously employed as a Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist since January 15, 2021. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from January 15, 2021 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


4.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Certificate, Associate's or Higher Degree AND 12-month program in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year Conferred:


5.
Are you certified in therapeutic radiologic technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T))?
Note: Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-10 or higher grade level on January 15, 2021, and have been continuously employed as a Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist since January 15, 2021. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from January 15, 2021 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No.


The practice of radiation therapy is performed by healthcare professionals responsible for the administration of ionizing radiation for treating diseases, primarily cancer. Radiation therapy requires an interdisciplinary team of radiation oncologists, radiation therapists, medical radiation physicists, medical dosimetrists, and nurses. The radiation therapist administers the radiation to the patient throughout the course of treatment. Radiation therapy integrates scientific knowledge, technical competence, and patient interaction skills to provide safe and accurate treatment with compassion. A radiation therapist recognizes patient conditions essential for the successful completion of simulation and treatment. Radiation therapists must demonstrate an understanding of human anatomy, human physiology, pathology and medical terminology. In addition, comprehension of oncology, radiobiology, radiation physics, radiation oncology techniques, cross sectional anatomy, radiation safety and the psychosocial aspects of cancer are required. They must maintain a high degree of accuracy in positioning and treatment techniques. TRTs must possess, use and maintain knowledge about radiation protection and safety. They assist the radiation oncologist to localize the treatment area and deliver high doses of ionizing radiation as prescribed by the radiation oncologist. The basic treatment deliveries consist of two-dimensional and three-dimensional treatment plans. The complex treatment deliveries consist of the advanced treatment delivery modalities as listed below and new emerging technologies on the horizon.


6.
Do you possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9), which is directly related to the position to be filled? For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher- level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity, range of variety and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Employees at this level serve as advanced staff TRTs independently carrying out procedures which have varying assignments. This includes basic and advanced treatment modalities and procedures, which exceed the full performance level. Employee will be assigned the responsibility of emergency on-call treatments, if applicable, and perform simple Monitor Unit calculations. Other assignments include but, are not limited to performing CT simulations, troubleshooting for basic problems and machine issues, maintaining treatment rooms and equipment in a clean, neat and safe condition and assisting patients to and from the treatment room. Regardless of the nature of the specific assignment, the work must be of sufficient scope and complexity to meet the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform at this level. In addition to the above, your experience, as listed in your resume, must demonstrate the following KSAs:
- Skill in independently performing machine warm up procedures and interpreting output levels compared with established thresholds adhering to the principles of radiation safety and all aspects of quality assurance.
- Ability to independently perform patient chart reviews using an electronic medical record and the Record and Verify System or other similar treatment delivery systems.
- Ability to independently perform all basic and complex CT simulations, including independently operating the CT equipment, following directives, designing custom immobilization for reproducible set-ups, obtaining optimal imaging, completing accurate data transfer for treatment planning and providing accurate and precise patient documentation.
- Ability to utilize a Linac's On Board Imaging system to interpret complex images.
 Yes
 No


RESUME Reminder- ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) ? Employer's Name Employer's City, State Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s)) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008 or 06/07-04/08) ? Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week, i.e. 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. ? Duties (be as detailed as possible) ? Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. NOTE: We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. (REQUIRED)


SF-50 Reminder- Applicants who are current Federal employees must upload a copy of their SF-50(s), dated in the current calendar year, with application. Failure to submit the required document(s) may result in NOT being referred.


LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER - If the position requires a licensure/certification to qualify, you must submit a copy of your licensure/certification with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙