Position Title
Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
WO-1614-VRP-26-12877720-IM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


7.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement.

Please note: You will be required to submit proof of a valid Motor Vehicle Operator's License before your entrance-on-duty date. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this license requirement.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be not be considered for this position.


8.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week or full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify I have read and understood this requirement. I understand I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


MANDATORY ENTRY AGE (MEA)
Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age, AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement and upon appointment to this position. The maximum entry age of 37 applies to this position. This is a primary position covered by enhanced retirement provisions which stipulate mandatory retirement at age 57 after 20 years of service (5 U.S.C. 3307 for Federal Law Enforcement positions).

Acceptable exceptions:
1.) An applicant has prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57; OR
2.) An applicant is a qualified veterans' preference eligible, in which case the MEA is waived and their corresponding retirement age may be higher than 57 after completing 20 years of service; OR
3.) An applicant is in receipt of an official Maximum Entry Age Waiver Memorandum approved by the National Park Service, Director of Law Enforcement (the applicant must upload this document with their application) AND is under the age of 40 years.


9.
MANDATORY MINIMUM ENTRY AGE

Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I am at least 21 years old.
 I do not meet the minimum entry age requirement as listed above.


10.
MANDATORY MAXIMUM ENTRY AGE

Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement and upon appointment to this position OR you meet one of the mandatory entry age exceptions. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I am at least 21 years old and under the age of 37; I will not exceed the age of 37 at the time of appointment.
 I am 37 years of age or older and have prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND a veterans’ preference eligible.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND under the age of 40 years AND in receipt an official Maximum Entry Age Waiver Memorandum approved by the National Park Service, Director of Law Enforcement.
 I do not meet the maximum entry age requirements as listed above.


Location Negotiable is when an agency has multiple agency worksites where a position can be filled, and the position is not designated as remote. If you select "Location Negotiable," you are agreeing that you are willing to be hired and placed at any park location listed in the job opportunity announcement. However, for this temporary promotion/detail job opportunity announcement, every effort will be made for the selectee(s) to be placed at their current park if a position is available.


11.
Location Negotiable Verification: Location Negotiable after Selection is when an agency has multiple agency worksites where a position can be filled, and the position is not designated as remote. By responding "Yes" to this Location Negotiable item, you are certifying that you are willing to be hired and placed at any park location listed in the participating locations link found in the job opportunity announcement. However, applicants will have the opportunity to learn more about which locations are hiring, and accept or decline a specific location prior to entrance-on-duty. To the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in these preferences are true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙