Position Title
Policy Analyst (Trade)
Agency
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
Announcement Number
USTR-EOP-12977796-26-TW-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Policy Analyst (Trade), GS-301-13, position with the United States Trade Representative.

Please select all areas of interest in the Office of United States Trade Representative you would like to be considered.


1.
Please select area in which you like to be considered for this position:
 A. Office of African Affairs
 B. Office of Agricultural Affairs & Commodity Policy
 C. Office of Environment & Natural Resources
 D. Office of Innovation & Intellectual Property
 E. Office of Labor Affairs
 F. Office of World Trade Organization (WTO) and Multilateral Affairs
 G. G. Office of China, Mongolia, and Taiwan Affairs


2.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for this GS-13 level: I possess at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent private sector performing the following duties:
 1) Supporting negotiations on trade policy issues or issues with respect to agriculture, environment, labor, intellectual property, the World Trade Organization, sub-Saharan Africa, China, Mongolia, or Taiwan; AND 2) Building coalitions and consensus among diverse groups and views on trade or policy issues with respect to agriculture, environment, labor, intellectual property, the World Trade Organization, sub-Saharan Africa, China, Mongolia, or Taiwan to advance and achieve policy objectives; AND 3) Supporting the development of policy positions on trade or issues with respect to agriculture, environment, labor, intellectual property, the World Trade Organization, sub-Saharan Africa, China, Mongolia, or Taiwan; AND 4) Researching and analyzing laws and regulations of foreign countries related to trade or issues with respect to agriculture, environment, labor, intellectual property, the World Trade Organization, sub-Saharan Africa, China, Mongolia, or Taiwan, as well as relevant international agreements; AND 5) Supporting time-sensitive team projects on trade policy or issues with respect to agriculture, environment, labor, intellectual property, the World Trade Organization, sub-Saharan Africa, China, Mongolia, or Taiwan across offices and organizations; AND 6) Communicating the results of research and analysis and advocating policy positions on trade policy or issues with respect to agriculture, environment, labor, intellectual property, the World Trade Organization, sub-Saharan Africa, China, Mongolia, or Taiwan, both orally and in writing.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙