Position Title
Human Resource Specialist (Physician Recruiter)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13068206-26-RR
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility , you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Dallas, TX
 San Antonio, TX
2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
.
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume: Prioritize most relevant and recent experience Use concise, results focused language Align language from the job announcement Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies Remove outdated or unrelated experience Use the USAJOBS resume builder Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at: https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/ SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.
.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
.
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
HR Specialist GS-0201-12
.
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following set of questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1.
GS-12 Minimum Qualifications Requirement: Please select the statement below that best describes your experience to meet the specific qualification requirement for this grade level.
 Experience. I possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service, that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA?s) needed to successfully perform the duties of this position and that is typically in or related to the position being filled. Specialized experience knowledge of and ability to apply a wide range of HR concepts, principles, laws, regulations, and practices, to include OPM requirements, VHA specific policy and labor organization agreements for Title 5, Hybrid T38 and full Title 38 positions. Ability to provide custom recruitment strategies and consultative services based upon occupational knowledge of current local and regional market area. Ability to apply quantitative and qualitative data to advise local, regional, and national leadership regarding recruitment trends, such as providing data in annual workforce planning cycles and advanced recruitment strategies to align and improve upon the methodologies utilized in the private sector. Ability to provide innovative recruitment strategies related to the national operational mission. Knowledge of a wide range of HR specialization concepts, practices, regulations, precedents, and procedures; special recruiting authorities and strategies. Ability to provide comprehensive HR services to local, regional, and national executive management employees throughout organizations serviced and analyze, evaluate, and recommend appropriate resolutions to complex interrelated HR problems and issues. Skill in serving as a consultant to managers in providing authoritative HR services and conducting detailed analyses of complex functions within serviced organizations. Ability to build coalitions by providing alternative solutions on interrelated HR problems and issues. Resolves difficult and controversial internal and external staffing and placement problems building coalitions and consensus through persuasion. Knowledge of and ability to interpret and apply laws, regulations, policies, and practices to provide advice, guide and strengthen partnership with stakeholders on a variety of HR functions. Knowledge of current HR database systems to query, retrieve, and analyze information to complete and monitor routine and special assignments. Skill to apply this information to a variety of difficult and complex work assignments to provide consultative services to HR staff and Service Chiefs at Network facilities on technical matters which involve recruitment decisions. Knowledge of veterans' preference regulations, and Special Hiring Authorities (VRA, CPS, Schedule A, etc.) and flexibilities. Knowledge of Title 5, Title 38, and Hybrid Title 38 appointment requirements. Knowledge of USA Staffing for the use of posting job announcements, issuing certificates of eligibility, issuing notices to employees, and advising managers on conducting job analysis. Knowledge of Reduction in Force, priority placement, reorganizations and realignments regulatory requirements and processes. Knowledge of local union contracts and local merit promotion plans for all facilities within the Network. Knowledge of job analysis on a wide variety of complex positions using research, interview, observation, and analytical techniques to gather, document, and analyze information to develop qualifications rating factors; determine appropriate rating and ranking selective factors and develop crediting plans to assess varying degrees of job qualifications; and explain the methodology to management. Ability to provide oral and written reports/correspondence outlining recommendations and results and coordinates results with local and regional stakeholders.
 I do NOT possess the experience and/or education as described in the above. I acknowledge that my application will not receive further consideration.
.
***Application Package Notification & Important Information*** We appreciate your interest in available positions within the South Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration: Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration. Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements. Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate. Some helpful tips: * Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Grade Level (for federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) * Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. * Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage). * Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50) * Proof of current certification, licensure, or registra tion (if applicable).
