Position Title
PERSONNEL SECURITY SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12895558-AR-26-051 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E4 - E9, WO1 - CW4 or O1 - O3?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E4 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O3.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of OX-OX.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST HAVE A TOP SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Top Secret security clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience, education or training in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately. Able to apply procedures and directives by reading and interpreting technical material. Ability to communicate clearly and effectively orally and in writing, using presentation and report formats. Demonstrated ability to follow directions, to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures. Learned ability to assess the surrounding environment to recognize immediate risk levels. Must have the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines and its applicable Security Series career.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education, knowledge of personnel security concepts, principles, and their application to administer state personnel security programs. This includes a thorough understanding of how to initiate, process, track, and adjudicate required clearance investigations, with proficiency in using security systems like JPAS, CATS, and DISS. The role requires thorough knowledge of analytical methods to evaluate security clearance eligibility, identify and resolve derogatory or conflicting information, and determine eligibility for access to classified and controlled unclassified information. Furthermore, the candidate must have advanced oral and written communication skills to report findings, conduct presentations, and clearly communicate sensitive personnel security processes. This expertise is supported by a practical knowledge of a wide range of DoD and other federal security programs, their interrelationships, and practices.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a complex suitability adjudication you performed. In your response, detail the steps you took to review and analyze the investigative files, including how you handled any missing information. Explain how you identified and weighed the derogatory versus favorable information to make a final determination in accordance with suitability guidelines.



4.

Provide an example of a time you received an incomplete or inaccurate personnel security clearance package. Explain the errors or omissions you found, the process you used to communicate with the subject and their unit to obtain the necessary corrections, and the steps you took to ensure the final package was complete before forwarding it to the investigating agency.



5.

Describe your experience managing a time-sensitive derogatory incident report from a Continuous Evaluation (CE) alert. Detail the process you followed from receiving the initial alert, reporting the incident in the appropriate system (such as JPAS/DISS), and communicating with the Central Adjudication Facility (CAF). What was the outcome of the report?



6.

This position requires advising managers on sensitive personnel security matters. Describe a situation where you had to guide a supervisor or unit security manager through the process of responding to a Statement of Reason (SOR) or a Request for Information (RFI) for one of their employees. How did you ensure they understood the procedures while also safeguarding the employee's Privacy Act information?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙