Position Title
Supervisory Police Officer (Lieutenant)
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12914660-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized experience for the TR-10 is one year of experience at the TR-09/GS-09 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Supervising in a law enforcement environment that has provided knowledge in the areas of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the TR-09/GS-09 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
You have personally qualified semi- annually with your primary weapon in order to maintain your agency certification?
 Yes
 No


3.
You have successfully completed Uniformed Police Training Program (UPTP) or equivalent or Criminal Investigator Training Program (CITP) at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Select from the following, all the statement(s) that best describe your ability to make sound, well-informed and objective decisions.
 A. I have identified and evaluated alternatives in making decisions.
 B. I have made sound and timely decisions in uncertain situations.
 C. I have made decisions in situations where written policy did not provide direction. These decisions were not subject to supervisory review or approval.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


5.
Please indicate the highest level of experience you have leading subordinates responsible for police operations.
 I have held a full-time police supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of other subordinate staff.
 I have held a team leader position or acted in the absence of the supervisor.
 I have led people assigned to me through the completion of a specific project or task.
 I have coordinated the work of others but have not been assigned formal leadership or supervisory responsibilities.
 I have no supervisory experience.


6.
Please select all which describe your experience with supervision in a law enforcement environment.
 A. Preparing and implementing performance standards
 B. Evaluating work performance
 C. Ensuring that staff is properly trained, developed and coached
 D. Recognizing and rewarding positive results
 E. Taking corrective action when needed
 F. Approving and denying various leave requests
 G. None of the above.


7.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


8.
Select all that describe your experience in training and mentoring others in a police environment.
 A. I have worked with others to solve problems or answer inquiries.
 B. I have provided constructive feedback and acted as a mentor.
 C. I have helped others learn through formal or informal methods.
 D. I have identified training needs and made recommendations.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you have experience working with labor unions and resolving labor conflicts among employees?
 Yes
 No


10.
This position requires performing administrative duties that require the use of computers. Please choose all the software packages below that you have experience using.
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Access
 C. Microsoft PowerPoint
 D. Microsoft Excel
 E. Microsoft Outlook
 F. Netscape/Internet Explorer
 G. Desktop Publishing
 H. Adobe InDesign
 I. Macromedia Dreamweaver or Microsoft FrontPage
 J. Adobe Acrobat
 K. Software other than Microsoft
 L. None of the above.


11.
Please choose from the following all the police procedures you have demonstrated experience in performing.
 A. Enforce policies and procedures within an area of jurisdiction.
 B. Protect buildings and grounds.
 C. Conduct proper apprehension and exercise arrest authority.
 D. Conduct preliminary investigations of incidents.
 E. Efficient handling of firearms.
 F. I have education in performing police procedures.
 G. None of the above.


12.
Please choose from the following all the police practices in which you have demonstrated experience in.
 A. Fingerprinting
 B. Civil Disturbance Response
 C. Bomb and explosive detection devices
 D. Special Weapons
 E. Alarm and Security Systems
 F. I have education following special police practices
 G. None of the above


13.
Please indicate which of the following most accurately describes your ability to investigate, analyze facts, and prepare reports.
 I have had training on investigating, analyzing facts, and preparing reports.
 I have collected information on common law enforcement or public safety incidents, e.g. prepared reports on serious traffic accidents or workplace or domestic disturbances.
 I have conducted investigations of minor crimes, accidents, and public safety incidents.
 I have completed reports on common public safety or property protection situations, e.g., interviewed principals and witnesses about traffic violations or workplace disturbances.
 I have no education or training on investigating, analyzing facts, and preparing reports.


14.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


15.
Choose all the statement(s) that describe the in-person communication services you have provided as a regular part of your job.
 A. I have maintained contacts and acted as liaison with outside organizations in order to convey detailed information about policies and regulations and rendered necessary assistance.
 B. I have explained technical or other information orally.
 C. I have explained technical or other information in writing.
 D. I have promoted, developed and maintained good working relationships with key individuals and/or groups.
 E. I have served as a liaison making contact with a variety of individuals for the purpose of conveying information.
 F. I have responded verbally to inquiries or requests for information.
 G. I have responded in writing to inquiries or requests for information
 H. I have conducted or facilitated briefings, meetings or conferences.
 I. None of the above.


16.
Please choose all that best describes your experience in communicating orally.
 A. I have communicated with others to receive instructions or directions in order to accomplish a task.
 B. I have participated in conducting presentations and/or provided training to a group of people on several occasions.
 C. I have communicated with others to exchange ideas and work together to accomplish a task.
 D. I have given verbal instructions to others to direct them to accomplish a task, including others who have been uninterested or uncooperative.
 E. None of the above.


17.
Please choose from the following all the documents you have experience independently writing:
 A. I have written police reports.
 B. I have written investigative reports.
 C. I have written intelligence reports.
 D. I have written operations plans.
 E. I have written operations orders.
 F. I have written risk assessments.
 G. I have written security surveys.
 H. I have written after action reports.
 I. I have written formal instructions for others to follow.
 J. I have written memorandums to peers or supervisors.
 K. I have written for a publication (newspaper, articles, etc.)
 L. I have written performance plans and performance ratings
 M. I have never independently written a document.
 N. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


18.
Do you have experience in preparing short term law enforcement program development plans?
 Yes
 No


19.
If yes, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


20.
Please indicate all of the following with which you have experience:
 A. Understands and interprets written materials including technical material, rules, regulations, instructions, reports, complicated charts and tables.
 B. Reads new statutes or regulations to interpret their intent and impact on the agency mission.
 C. Identifies information needs and devises methods of organizing technical information for which there is no precedent.
 D. Reads standard and new materials on law enforcement procedures and techniques to determine that instructions to employees are complete and accurate.
 E. Participates in law enforcement conferences and seminars to learn about technological issues that affect the agency.
 F. Develops and maintains networks in national and international communities.
 G. None of the above.


21.
Please indicate all of the following police training procedures with which you have experience instructing.
 A. Firearms
 B. Use of Force
 C. Weaponless tactics
 D. Interview and report writing
 E. Criminal investigations
 F. Patrol procedures
 G. None of the above.


22.
Please select from the answers that best identifies your training and or experience pertaining to implementing motivational skills in training programs.
 I have formal training and application in motivational theory as it pertains to training classes and programs developed or conducted.
 I have minimal training, but substantial experience in the application of motivational theory in training conducted or developed.
 I have formal training in motivational theory with little or no application experience.
 I do not have formal training or experience in motivational theory.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙