Position Title
FUL-Engineering Equipment Operator
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYO-27-13051203-FUL-SL
Open Period
Oct 05, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised? You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 80 miles from the job announcement location(s). Location(s): Tulelake, CA If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No
Engineering Equipment Operator, WG-5716-10, PD#S000603
.
Thank you for your interest in the Engineering Equipment Operator, WG-5716-10 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.
.
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an Engineering Equipment Operator, WG-5716-10.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Engineering Equipment Operator duties without more than normal supervision. I am skilled in operating heavy engineering equipment such as bulldozers, excavators, road graders, skid steers, backhoes, and/or wheeled or tracked loaders to excavate, grade, level, compact, or move earth and materials over rough, uneven, or difficult terrain. I independently adjust equipment and attachments to meet grade, slope, depth, or contour requirements and perform routine equipment maintenance and safety inspections. I am considered an expert and perform these duties independently.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Engineering Equipment Operator duties under general supervision. I have experience operating heavy engineering equipment such as bulldozers, excavators, road graders, skid steers, backhoes, and/or wheeled or tracked loaders to excavate, grade, level, compact, or move earth and materials. I adjust equipment and attachments to meet grade, slope, depth, or contour requirements and perform routine equipment maintenance and safety inspections. I work independently on most assignments, with occasional review by a supervisor.
 I have the ability to perform common Engineering Equipment Operator duties. I have experience operating engineering equipment to perform routine excavation, grading, leveling, compacting, or earth-moving work. I have experience making basic adjustments to equipment or attachments and performing routine equipment maintenance and safety inspections. My work is performed under close supervision and is reviewed while in progress and upon completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple Engineering Equipment Operator tasks. I have received training or have limited experience operating engineering equipment and/or assisting with excavation, grading, leveling, compacting, or moving earth and materials. I perform these duties under close supervision and guidance.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
.
Integrity Certification
2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
