Position Title
SUPERVISORY QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12966702-AF-26-496 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education, and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
REQUIRED SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
Must have 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-11. Specialized experience includes experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of product or range of products involved, the manufacturing methods and techniques, special processes, test, and performance requirements; and skill in developing plans and programs. Experience possessed by an expert in specialization able to give technical direction to otherwise competent workers. Experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found. Experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e., special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field. Experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for the function required by type of position to be filled and the organization involved. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel. 

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement?
(E8 - E9; E8 applicants must be immediately promotable to E9)
 Yes
 No


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙