Position Title
Tax Analyst (Quality Analyst)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13060819K-TSN-0501-09 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (GA0010) 2385 Chamblee Tucker Road, Chamblee, GA
 B. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Avenue, Holtsville, NY
 C. (PA0809) 2970 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA
 D. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 E. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce Street, Dallas, TX


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


13.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the Taxpayer Services business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
To qualify for this position you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

GS-9 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience in the Identity Theft (IDT) Paper Process; Experience with the management of inventory and applicable research and resolution processes of the campus Identity Theft Victim Assistance (IDTVA) teams, including taxpayer identified and IRS identified claims, Compliance Identity Theft Case Processing, and Return Preparer Misconduct (RPM) complaints with and without compliance activity;
Experience in the Correspondence Imaging System (CIS)/Correspondence Imaging Inventory (CII) and Accounts Management System (AMS) to follow processes and procedures for Individual Master File (IMF) and Business Master File (BMF) adjustments and Advanced IMF (including but not limited to First Read, Injured Spouse Claims, and Duplicate Accounts, Decedent Accounts, Payments, No Merge and Carrybacks);
Experience interpreting and applying the Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) to provide technical assistance;
Experience applying the methods, precedents, and guidelines related to individual and/or business accounts and the specialization of the assigned workload;
Experience working and researching accounts;
Experience utilizing self-directed inventory management procedures to complete reviews and conduct research;
Experience using knowledge of cross-functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned program to conduct pre-selected reviews;
Experience using technical methods and practices such as program analysis, process analysis, management reporting procedures and available system capabilities to resolve operating problems, and provide statistical data or other management information reports;
Experience in recognizing tax issues that impact assigned programs in order to make recommendations;
Experience using oral and written communications to exchange information, to prepare reports, explaining program differences and recommending improvements and/or corrective action;
Experience using the Embedded Quality Review System/National Quality Review System and writing quality reviews from taxpayer contacts.
OR Master's or equivalent graduate degree if related. 
OR Two years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
OR LLB or JD, if related.
OR A combination of experience and graduate level education equivalent to that described above.


1.
GS-9 Level: Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree as defined above.
 I have two full years of progressively higher level graduate as described above.
 I have a LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I have a combination of experience and graduate level education equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above.


2.
Indicate your level of experience with training others.
 A. Served as an On-the-Job Instructor (OJI)
 B. Delivered a lesson as part of a group or team meeting
 C. Delivered a lesson as part of a classroom or virtual training session
 D. Served as the formal instructor for a training session in a classroom or virtual setting
 E. None of the above


3.
Which of the following describes your contribution to the team or workplace?
 A. Developed methods to improve quality
 B. Provided rebuttal feedback on a CQRS national review completed to the Senior Analyst as a CQRS Reviewer.
 C. Requested IRM updates through SERP Feedback that were implemented.
 D. Requested updates on MAJAs or Quality Grams that were implemented.
 E. None of the above


4.
Which of the following sources of information have you used in the performance of your duties to improve efficiencies?
 A. Information provided by internal or external customer inquiries
 B. Quality review results from NQRS reports
 C. Quality review results from EQRS reports
 D. CQRS SPRG Error Trend reports and/or Internal CQRS Quarterly Rebuttal Analysis
 E. None of the above


5.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience resolving technical/procedural issues?
 Identified and elevated a technical/procedural issue for resolution
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented within the Business unit
 None of the above


6.
Which of the following groups have you explained tax law and/or processes?
 A. Taxpayers or taxpayer representatives over the telephone, in person, or by correspondence
 B. Internal CQRS stakeholders
 C. Internal stakeholders (e.g., other business units, coworkers, manager)
 D. Senior management or executive leadership
 E. None of the above


7.
Indicate your level of experience delivering presentations.
 A. Led meetings on Acct Paper Adjustments, Return Preparer Misconduct AM, IDT Paper Specialty, IDT Fraudulent Return, IDT IPSU, and/or IDT Paper AM topics.
 B. Briefed management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 C. Delivered training on NQRS coding on the Acct Paper Adjustments, Return Preparer Misconduct AM, IDT Paper Specialty, IDT Fraudulent Return, IDT IPSU, and/or IDT Paper AM SPRGs.
 D. Delivered coding consistency exercises on the Acct Paper Adjustments, Return Preparer Misconduct AM, IDT Paper Specialty, IDT Fraudulent Return, IDT IPSU, and/or IDT Paper AM SPRGs.
 E. None of the above


8.
Which of the following documents have you written?
 A. Taxpayer correspondence
 B. SERP feedback and/or Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) (including co-authored)
 C. NQRS DCIs on the Acct Paper Adjustments, Return Preparer Misconduct AM, IDT Paper Specialty, IDT Fraudulent Return, IDT IPSU, and/or IDT Paper AM SPRGs
 D. EQRS DCIs on the Acct Paper Adjustments, Return Preparer Misconduct AM, IDT Paper Specialty, IDT Fraudulent Return, IDT IPSU, and/or IDT Paper AM SPRGs
 E. Created technical guidance (e.g., FAQ, Job Aids, training materials) for CQRS
 F. CQRS internal procedure documents
 G. None of the above


9.
Which of the following analysis activities have you performed?
 A. Monitored and evaluated taxpayer contacts using NQRS
 B. Monitored and evaluated taxpayer contacts using EQRS
 C. Filtered DCIs entered into NQRS using Microsoft Excel.
 D. Filtered DCIs entered into EQRS using Microsoft Excel.
 E. Reviewed CQRS data/information to ensure consistency and compliance with established guidelines or requirements.
 F. None of the above


10.
In which of the following roles have you performed quality review?
 A. Program Analysis System (PAS) Reviewer
 B. Team lead
 C. Manager/Supervisor
 D. National Quality Review System (NQRS)/Centralized Quality Review System (CQRS) Reviewer
 E. Centralized Evaluative Reviewer (CER)
 F. None of the above


11.
Which of the following describes your experience working on projects?
 A. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME), technical expert, or team-member for a project
 B. Served as a coordinator of a process (e.g., statute coordinator)
 C. Served as sub-team lead of a project
 D. Managed a project
 E. Managed multiple projects simultaneously
 F. None of the above


12.
Which of the following computer applications or programs do you use to complete your work?
 A. Correspondence Imaging System (CIS)
 B. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS), AMS, IAT, and RTR to research cases or review reports
 C. TDS, MEF-EUP, ITIN -RTS and SERP
 D. NQRS to enter DCIs
 E. EQRS to enter DCIs
 F. Microsoft WORD, Outlook, OneNote, Skype, Adobe, and PowerPoint
 G. Full scope of Verint Ultra 15 to assess and review contacts (review inbox contacts, search results, save remarks, complete evaluation forms, reject contacts)
 H. Microsoft Excel to perform statistical analysis or import/export data
 I. None of the above


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙