Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
344-26-CS-12994914-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) or Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) employees who are Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


1.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 A. Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 B. No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 C. This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee


2.
What is your current grade?


3.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


4.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VA?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


5.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you for Time-In-Grade GS-11 level:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) , 30% or More Disabled Veteran Appointment, Military Spouse Appointment or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B or C applies to me.


6.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you for Time-In-Grade GS-12 level:
 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-11 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for 30% or More Disabled Veteran Appointment, Military Spouse Appointment or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B or C applies to me.


7.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined such as: 
Collecting and researching data for evaluations of programs/operations;
Researching laws, regulations, guidelines, and approved procedures to provide findings;
Communicating information to management, both orally and in writing.

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have one of the following: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.

Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher in the Federal Service.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related. I will submit transcripts as supporting documentation.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 I do not meet any of the criteria listed above.


8.
To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined such as, but not limited to:
Providing advice and guidance for improvements on policies and making recommendations;
Applying analytic methods and techniques to evaluate the effectiveness, productivity, and/or performance of administrative and technical programs;
Applying and modifying established practices to specific administrative problems which involve many variables;
Preparing detailed reports to present findings from analysis to management.

There is no education substitution for the GS-12 level.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level or higher in the Federal Service.
 I do not meet any of the criteria listed above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate 
attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their 
accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙