Position Title
Custodial Worker (Housekeeper)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12839860 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 21, 2025 to Wednesday, November 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Non-appropriated (NAF) employee with Naval Support Activity Annapolis?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have knowledge of cleaning procedures gained through experience working with proper use of cleaning equipment and commonly used chemicals, including familiarity with applicable Safety Data Sheets (SDS)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to communicate clearly and effectively in English, both verbally and in writing with
management, staff and guests?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have completing daily room status reports and housekeeping assignment sheets?
 I have 2+ years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 2 years' of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have working in the housekeeping field in a hotel, lodge, health care facility, nursing home, or home cleaning service?
 I have 2+ years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience with above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙