Position Title
Child and Youth Programs School Liason Officer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-1147 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program School Liaison Officer. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 Successful completion of a 4 year college or university degree with a major course of study or substantial course work which directly relates to a CYP field: Early Childhood, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a closely related field AND a minimum of 3 years of experience working with school personnel, students and parents (i.e., School Liaison Officer, CYP Manager, education or academic leader/counselor).
 A combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 hours) appropriate to the position (see above), plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in ECE, Elementary or Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a related field of study.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Elementary or Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a related field of study.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in conducting program evaluations (e.g., research interviews, focus groups, working groups, and surveys), including data collection and analysis to formulate recommendations in early childhood, elementary, and secondary education?
 I have 3+ years of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in preparing and presenting program briefings (e.g., presentations, lesson plans, trainings, evaluation of training, and/or orientations) to K-12 professionals or other adults in a classroom or professional forum?
 I have 3+ years of experience in preparing and presenting information to adults, as described above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in preparing and presenting information to adults, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in preparing and presenting information, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
Have you ever held a School Liaison Officer (SLO) position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held an SLO position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held an SLO position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙