Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-13067109-26-LW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


4.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part I, pre-employment reference checks have been incorporated into the selection process. Hiring officials must conduct pre-employment reference checks with a current or previous supervisor prior to HR staff extending a tentative offer.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, telephone number and email address of at least one current/former supervisor who were in a position to directly observe your work within the previous 3 years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted, or if you prefer to provide your references upon request.

*Note: Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position. The following section is used to identify basic requirements for this vacancy. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you. In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional qualification requirements. Applicants pending the completion of registration requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:


Basic Requirements: Candidates interested in employment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) must meet the basic requirements for appointment.

NOTE: Applicants may qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria). The following questions pertain to the basic requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 2, section D, paragraph 3a.

Are you proficient in standard English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education, Experience, or Certification. Candidates interested in employment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist must meet the basic experience and/or education requirements. NOTE: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.

Do you possess one of the following below:

 A. I have an Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field. *Transcripts must be provided.
 B. I have an Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience. *Transcripts must be provided.
 C. I have Completed the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program. *Proof of completion must be provided.
 D. I have Completed a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience. *Proof of program completion must be provided.
 E. I have Completed a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship. *Certificate of completion must be provided.
 F. I have Completed a biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience. *Certificate of completion must be provided.
 G. I Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM).
 H. Qualify under the Grandfathering Provision (Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and assignment held including positive education and certification.)
 I. I do not meet any of the above.


This section will be used to determine whether you meet the grade level qualifications for the position. Select the response which best describes your specialized experience and/or education for the position.


3.
GS-05 Experience: To qualify at the GS-05 level there is no education, experience or certification required beyond the basic qualifications.

Do you meet the basic qualifications of the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist?
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-07 Experience: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level? 
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Providing support of basic medical equipment and systems to include, but not limited to: installation, preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, repair, calibrations and safety inspections.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of physics, anatomy, and physiology.
(b) Knowledge of electronics such as analog, digital, and microprocessor theory.
(c) Knowledge of the use of standard level test equipment such as multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
(d) Knowledge of basic networking concepts, such as computer and server hardware and software functionality, information technologies and computer virus protection software, available software patches and upgrades, and information security tools (for example, Microsoft Office, Windows operating systems, and McAfee).
(e) Skill in documenting all services provided in support of medical equipment and clinical systems in a computerized maintenance management system.
(f) Ability to learn equipment operating and maintenance procedures
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-09 Experience: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Provides support of medical equipment and systems to include, but not limited to: installation, preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, repair, reliability, calibrations and safety; supporting basic biomedical equipment such as but not limited to infusion pumps; PCA pumps, feeding pumps, suction pumps, defibrillators, clinical video systems, hypo/hyperthermia units, vital sign monitors, physiological monitors, dental equipment, and other patient care devices; performs and documents all repairs and preventive maintenance activities; and ensures that the data is correctly entered into the medical equipment management computer system. Utilizes schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, and technical manuals as guidelines for accomplishing work. Uses specialized electronic test gear or software to analyze, evaluate, diagnose, troubleshoot, calibrate or repair analog and digital microprocessor controlled, computerized or networked digital systems. Makes determinations as to whether systems are safe for patient and operator use and initiates appropriate corrective action when necessary. The specialist performs incoming inspections on new medical equipment and systems to determine that all government safety regulations, manufacturer's specifications, contract requirements, and needs of the user are met. Contacts vendors and their representatives to obtain information on equipment and coordinate problem resolution. Monitors the quality of vendor service provided and ensures satisfactory and timely completion. Provides tactful instruction to equipment operators on the proper use of equipment to avoid use error recurrences; and documents appropriately; and instructs on operator level preventative maintenance. Provides biomedical equipment related technical training to peer and clinical staff.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of basic networking concepts including Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
(b) Knowledge of computer and server hardware and software functionality including virus protection, operating system patches and upgrades, and information security tools.
(c) Ability to interpret a variety of technical data such as schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, table charts, mathematical expressions, and formulas.
(d) Ability to use standard level test equipment including multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
(e) Ability to perform equipment maintenance and operating procedures.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-11 Experience: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Provides support of medical equipment and systems; installing, maintaining, safety testing, calibrating, troubleshooting, and supporting medical technologies such as sleep lab monitoring systems, GI endoscopic systems, dental imaging equipment, surgical equipment, and clinical laboratory equipment; performing and documenting repairs and preventive maintenance activities and ensuring that the data is correctly entered into the medical equipment management computer system; utilizing schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, and technical manuals as guidelines for accomplishing work; maintaining inventory documentation of assigned networked-attached medical equipment/systems to include electronic protected health information (ePHI) requirements, Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN), IP addresses, Access Control Lists (ACL), anti-virus software, and other necessary information; and providing biomedical equipment related technical training to peer and clinical staff.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
(b) Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
(c) Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams.
(d) Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
(e) Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
(f) Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
(g) Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and assignment held including positive education and certification. For employees who do not meet all the basic or assignment-specific requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:

(1) Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation, but they may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.

(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.

(3) Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙