Position Title
Investigative Analyst 13 - Office of Investigations CIPCD
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
IA-26-134A-13003641-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG), United States Postal Service (USPS), United Sates Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), or Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) career employee?  If yes, please submit a copy of your current PS-50 form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Montgomery, AL
 BC. Anchorage, AK
 BQ. Phoenix, AZ
 BR. Tucson, AZ
 BS. Little Rock, AR
 BT. Chula Vista, CA
 BU. Fresno, CA
 BV. Long Beach, CA
 BW. Los Angeles County, CA
 BX. Oakland, CA
 BY. Riverside, CA
 BZ. Sacramento County, CA
 CA. San Jose, CA
 CB. San Mateo, CA
 CC. Santa Clarita, CA
 CD. Denver, CO
 CE. New Haven, CT
 CF. Southeastern Connecticut Planning Region, CT
 CG. Washington, DC
 CH. Jacksonville, FL
 CI. Miami, FL
 CJ. Orlando, FL
 CK. Tallahassee, FL
 CL. Tampa, FL
 CM. West Palm Beach, FL
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Honolulu, HI
 D. Carol Stream, IL
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Hammond, IN
 G. Indianapolis, IN
 H. Windsor Heights, IA
 I. Covington, KY
 J. Louisville, KY
 K. New Orleans, LA
 L. Shreveport, LA
 M. Baltimore, MD
 N. Bethesda, MD
 O. Capitol Heights, MD
 P. Brockton, MA
 Q. Woburn, MA
 R. Allen Park, MI
 S. Grand Rapids, MI
 T. Duluth, MN
 U. Eagan, MN
 V. Jackson, MS
 W. Kansas City, MO
 X. Saint Charles, MO
 Y. Saint Louis, MO
 Z. Las Vegas, NV
 AA. Bellmawr, NJ
 AC. Edison, NJ
 AD. Trenton, NJ
 AE. Albuquerque, NM
 AF. Brooklyn, NY
 AG. Buffalo, NY
 AH. New York, NY
 AI. Syracuse, NY
 AJ. West Babylon, NY
 AK. Charlotte, NC
 AL. Greensboro, NC
 AM. Raleigh, NC
 AN. Columbus, OH
 AO. Lakewood, OH
 AP. Oklahoma City, OK
 AQ. Portland, OR
 AR. Harrisburg, PA
 AS. Warrendale, PA
 AT. San Juan, PR
 AU. Woonsocket, RI
 AV. West Columbia, SC
 AW. Knoxville, TN
 AX. Memphis, TN
 AY. Austin, TX
 AZ. Bedford, TX
 BA. Coppell, TX
 BB. Dallas, TX
 BD. El Paso, TX
 BE. Houston, TX
 BF. San Antonio, TX
 BG. Salt Lake City, UT
 BH. Arlington, VA
 BI. Chesapeake, VA
 BJ. Merrifield, VA
 BK. Richmond, VA
 BL. Roanoke, VA
 BM. Federal Way, WA
 BN. Spokane, WA
 BO. Vancouver, WA
 BP. Milwaukee, WI


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Employees Only
 
This announcement is open to current employees of the agency. You must submit your most recent PS-50 form for eligibility verification.

All others will be deemed ineligible on this announcement.
 
Current or Former Federal Employees OR VEOA Eligibles: You are ineligible for this announcement and must apply to announcement #: 13003640

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for this position.
 I am a current employee of the USPS Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG) and will submit my most recent PS-50 form for eligibility verification
 I am a current employee of the United States Postal Service (USPS) and will submit my most recent PS-50 form for eligibility verification
 I am a current employee of the US Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) and will submit my most recent PS-50 form for eligibility verification
 I do not meet the eligibility requirements for this announcement
 I am a current employee of the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) and will submit my most recent PS-50 form for eligibility verification


2.
Professional (Full-Time) Specialized Experience Requirement


Please select which matches your level of specialized professional experience (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of professional, full-time specialized experience in investigative analysis and data analytics relating to investigations. I will submit my resume that reflects when and where this experience was gained.
 More than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional, full-time specialized experience in investigative analysis and data analytics relating to investigations. I will submit my resume that reflects when and where this experience was gained.
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional, full-time specialized experience in investigative analysis and data analytics relating to investigations. I will submit my resume that reflects when and where this experience was gained.
 More than four (4) years but less than five (5) years of professional, full-time specialized experience in investigative analysis and data analytics relating to investigations. I will submit my resume that reflects when and where this experience was gained.
 More than five (5) years of professional, full-time specialized experience in investigative analysis and data analytics relating to investigations.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described in the announcement.


3.
Data Management, Analysis, and Querying


Select the option that best describes your experience with data management, data analysis, and performing data queries.
 I have limited experience working with data sets and performing basic analysis. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have practical experience managing structured data, performing routine analyses, and using basic query tools. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have advanced experience working with large or complex data sets, applying analytical methods, and running structured queries. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have expert-level experience developing data management strategies, performing complex analyses, and designing or optimizing data queries. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I do not have data management, analysis, and querying experience. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.


4.
Training, Communication, and Case Management


Which option best represents your experience training others on investigative analysis topics, communicating investigative findings, and applying case management techniques?


 I have some experience in one of these areas (training, communication, or case management). My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have moderate experience in at least two of the areas listed. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have experience in training others, communicating investigative findings effectively, and using case management methods. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have expert-level experience leading training efforts, presenting complex investigative facts to varied audiences, and overseeing case management processes from initiation through resolution. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I do not have the training, communication, and case management experience required.


5.
Microsoft Excel Proficiency

Rate your level of proficiency using Microsoft Excel to organize, analyze, and present data (e.g., formulas, pivot tables, sorting/filtering, charts, and data validation).
 I have limited experience and can perform basic tasks such as entering data and formatting cells. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have moderate experience and can use common functions and tasks such as sorting, filtering, and basic formulas. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have advanced experience and can use complex formulas, pivot tables, linked worksheets, and data analysis tools. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I have expert-level experience and routinely use advanced analytical functions, develop complex models, and create data visualizations for decision-making. My submitted resume demonstrates this experience.
 I do not have experience with Microsoft Excel.


6.
Performance Appraisal Requirements


Select the option that best describes how you meet the past performance requirements for this position.

 I received at least "met expectations" rating on my two most recent performance appraisals. I will attach my performance appraisals for FY 2024 and FY 2025 with my application.
 I do not meet the past performance requirements for this position and/or will not be uploading a performance appraisal or substitute documentation explaining why they are not available.
 I do not have my two most recent performance appraisals. I will submit a substitute document explaining why they are not available.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
In-Office Requirement & Duty Station Location Space Availability


The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.


IMPORTANT NOTE: Duty location will be assigned based on space availability at the time of selection. You will have the opportunity to ask more about this during an interview.


Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


8.
Certification of Accuracy
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.
 

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙