Position Title
Supervisory Rec Specialist ( Assistant YSF)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12911919 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Assistant Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you
 A minimum of a 2-year degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree as appropriate is preferred AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth
 Experience that demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, coordinate, supervise, or evaluate youth fitness, recreation, and sports programs AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a 2-year degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree.
 I do not have a degree, but have experience in planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, and/or evaluating youth fitness, recreation, and sports programs
 I have none of the above


3.
How many years of experience do you have in assisting with a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct of youth and adult participants?
 I have 3+ years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in record management, inventory control, or purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth development program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing.
 I have no experience in the above


5.
How many years of experience do you have in supporting the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments (e.g., sports fields, courts, etc.), as well as assisting with the scheduling of indoor/outdoor program space?
 I have 3+ years of experience in supporting the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments in a DoD Child and Youth Program
 I have 3+ years of experience in supporting the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments in a child and youth program outside of the DoD
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in supporting the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in supporting the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in supporting the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 3 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 3 years of supervisory experience
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


7.
What size is the Youth Sports Program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large Youth Sports Program (200 youth and above).
 I have experience managing a medium Youth Sports Program (100 to 199 youth).
 I have experience managing a small Youth Sports Program (up to 99 youth).
 I have no experience in the above


8.
How many volunteers and coaches do you have experience in managing?
 I have experience in managing a large group of volunteers/coaches (100 volunteer/coaches and above)
 I have experience in managing a medium group of volunteers/coaches (26 to 99 volunteer/coaches).
 I have experience in managing a small group of volunteers/coaches (up to 25 volunteer/coaches).
 I have no experience in the above.


9.
 How many different sport seasons per year do you have experience in managing?
 I have experience in managing 4 different sport seasons per year.
 I have experience in managing 2-3 different sport seasons per year
 I have experience in managing 1 sport season per year
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙