Position Title
Division Chief/ Policy/ Planning and Budget
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12965520-M Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to May 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience is 52 weeks of experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent, in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience:

-Providing executive direction over day-to-day fiscal operations of a manufacturing organization AND
-Leading teams to ensure on-time execution of plans, developing and implementing policy programs, developing, implementing AND
-Experience tracking performance metrics, monitoring and evaluating administrative functions specific to organizational budget and performance plans that support agency strategic plans.



1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires the incumbent to travel an average of 1-5 nights per month. Are you willing to travel the amount of time?

 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience in a policy, planning, and budget organization.
 I am considered an advisor in the following two areas: developing an organizational budget and performance plans that support the agency’s overall strategic plans; ensuring departments fulfill their operating requirements and comply with federal laws and directives.
 I have comprehensive experience in the following two areas: developing an organizational budget and performance plans that support the agency’s overall strategic plans; ensuring departments fulfill their operating requirements and comply with federal laws and directives.
 I have experience performing work in the following two areas: developing an organizational budget and performance plans that support the agency’s overall strategic plans; ensuring departments fulfill their operating requirements and comply with federal laws and directives.
 I have experience performing work in the following two areas: developing an organizational budget and performance plans that support the agency’s overall strategic plans; ensuring departments fulfill their operating requirements and comply with federal laws and directives.
 None of the above


4.
Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have experience in a financial organization. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


5.
Choose all examples that apply to your experience in planning, developing, and implementing program policy.
 I have planned, developed, and implemented program policy routinely and independently as a regular part of my job
 I have planned, developed, and implemented program policy as a regular part of my job under supervision
 I have assisted in planning, developing, and implementing program policy as a member of a team
 I have not performed any of the above tasks


6.
Select from the list below, the type(s) of written communication you have personally and successfully prepared under tight deadline pressure. 
 A. Fiscal Year Operating Plans
 B. Fiscal Year Budgets
 C. Annual Reports
 D. None of the above


7.
Please select the response that best reflects your experience in personally performing analytical tasks.
 Developed new policies or regulations
 Recommended alternative approaches to draft regulations or policies
 Interpreted existing legislation, regulations, or policies
 None of the above


8.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your work experience?  Check all that apply
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects
 C. Closed out projects
 D. Started up and manage projects through completion
 E. Established and monitor project progress
 F. Met deadlines
 G. Made resource decisions for competing projects
 H. Anticipated and resolve problems
 I. None of the above


9.
Indicate your experience in maintaining and promoting effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, union officials or contractors
 Established effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, union officials or contractors
 Led efforts to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, union officials, co-workers or contractors
 Worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, union officials, co-workers or contractors
 Developed programs to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, union officials, co-workers or contractors
 I have not performed any of the above tasks


10.
Choose all examples that apply to your experience analyzing data and information when preparing written reports.  Check all that apply
 A. I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared
 B. Been the primary author of briefings, articles, studies, or reports
 C. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences
 D. Composed explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations
 E. Analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, opportunities, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports that I prepared
 F. None of the above


11.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your communication / briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job to support organizational goals and Leadership
 A. I regularly communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities in oral presentations.
 B. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations
 C. I brief stakeholders outside the organization on goals and objectives
 D. I defend organization’s position with third parties performing oversight review
 E. None of the above


12.
I have made formal or informal presentations in the following settings: 
 A. Before decision-making groups
 B. To advisory groups
 C. At public meetings
 D. I do not have or do not meet any of the choices above


13.
From the choices below, please choose which best describes your project management experience
 A. Direct project management experience with an analytical tool like Microsoft Project
 B. Managed priorities through spreadsheet or table
 C. Supervised staff that managed priorities
 D. 4. I have been provided priorities and work schedules by superiors
 E. 5. I have not performed any of the above tasks


14.
This position requires establishing and maintaining effective relationships with agency officials and personnel in the public and private sector.  Choose the statement(s) that describe the services you provided as a regular part of your job. 
 A. Made recommendations to senior level personnel on the best course of action based upon the review and analysis of documents, including the provision of summaries for such documents
 B. Maintained and conducted effective contacts and acted as liaison with stakeholders regarding analyses you performed on substantive issues
 C. ticipated in meetings with senior agency officials at the Director/Deputy Director level preparing policy analyses, background information, fact sheets and other material concerning substantive technical issues
 D. Responded verbally to inquiries or requests for information regarding topics for which you provided analyses
 E. Explained verbally technical information regarding topics for which you provided analyses to a variety of audiences.
 F. None of the above


15.
From the following list, select all of the formal managerial, supervisory, or team lead duties you have performed as part of your official responsibilities in a position
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 C. Responsible for first line supervision or team lead to employees
 D. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work
 E. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters
 F. Interviewed candidates for positions
 G. 7. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities
 H. 8. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve
 I. 9. I have not performed any of the above tasks


16.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience planning work to be accomplished by subordinates; setting priorities; evaluating performance; giving advice, counsel and instructions; effecting minor disciplinary actions; and identifying developmental and training needs?
 I have been responsible for planning work to be accomplished by subordinates; setting priorities; evaluating performance; giving advice, counsel and instructions; effecting minor disciplinary actions; and identifying developmental and training needs
 I have worked with others in planning work to be accomplished; setting priorities; giving advice, counsel and instructions; and identifying developmental and training needs.
 I have had education and training in planning work to be accomplished; setting priorities; and identifying skills necessary to accomplish the work
 I have not performed any of the tasks above


17.
Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing or administrating an important program and/or significant program segment. Check all that apply. 
 A. Issued program interpretations and recommended decisions regarding laws, regulations and program policies relating to the program
 B. Developed and recommended program policies, strategies and goals
 C. Set the short-range objectives for the accomplishment of the program work
 D. Set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws.
 E. Promoted program(s) and provided expert advice to a variety of senior officials
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks


18.
Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have experience managing, directing or administrating an important program and/or significant program segment. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


19.
Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing and administrating process improvement. Check all that apply
 A. Responsible for administering and implementing process improvement
 B. Experience working with others to implement process improvements
 C. I have had education and training in process improvement
 D. I have not performed any of the tasks above


20.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your skill in handling policies. Check all that apply.
 A. 1. I have represented and negotiated the policy positions of officials related to program policies and procedures
 B. 2. I have designed, developed and implemented program policies, procedures, standards and practices in accordance with Federal statutes
 C. 3. I have facilitated needed policy changes and modified processes in response to changing Federal policies and management assessments
 D. 4. I have analyzed and interpreted policy guidance contained in legislation, regulations, and policy directives
 E. 5. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙