Position Title
Chiropractor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12883279-26-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
The following questions will determine your basic eligibility for the position in which you are applying.


1.
Do you possess a Degree of Doctor of Chiropractic, or its equivalent, resulting from a course of education in chiropractic that was obtained from one of the schools or colleges approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed?
United States schools or colleges of chiropractic listed as accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education, at http://www.cce-usa.org/, or equivalent agency, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
 Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure
NOTE: Transcripts are required as part of your application package. Applicants claiming they have the necessary education must list their degree, institution attended and graduation date on their supplied resume/CV. Failure to provide this documentation will result in an ineligible rating.
 Yes
 I am a current VA Health Professions Trainee in the process of completing my residency
 No


2.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree:

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Licensure: Do you meet any of the licensure requirements below?
Doctor of Chiropractic License (Except Residents). Do you hold a current, full and unrestricted license to practice chiropractic in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
Residents: Will you hold licensure in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia before completion of the first year of a VA residency?
Impaired Licensure: Are you a doctor of chiropractic who has, or has ever had, any license(s) revoked, suspended, denied, restricted, limited, or issued/placed on a probationary status?
NOTE: A copy of your license is required as part of your application package. Applicants claiming they have the necessary licensure must list the information on their supplied resume/CV. Failure to provide this documentation will result in an ineligible rating.
 Yes
 I am a current VA Health Professions Trainee in the process of completing my residency
 No


4.
Provide the following information regarding your licensure:

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:
License Status:


Grade Level Requirements:

In addition to the basic requirements stated above, additional grade requirements must be met for positions above the minimum grade (Associate) of the job series/title. Please respond to the question below regarding grade specific requirements by selecting the response that best describes your level of experience. This position is not supervisory in nature and as such an applicant may fall within one of the following grades: Associate, Full or Intermediate.


5.
This position may be hired at one of three grades: Associate Grade, Full Grade or Intermediate Grade. A grade determination will be made after a selection is made and all supporting documentation has been reviewed. Please select the answer below that best describes, but does not exceed your current qualifications:
 
 Associate Grade: None beyond the basic requirements.
 Full Grade: Two years of full-time chiropractic practice or its equivalent. One year of full-time post-graduate residency specialty training from a chiropractic school or college by the Council on Chiropractic Education, or equivalent agency approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, is acceptable in lieu of the 2 years of practice. Candidate must have demonstrated the professional competence and performance necessary to provide independently the full range of clinical diagnosis and chiropractic treatment for the most prevalent neuro-musculoskeletal conditions including subluxation complex. (Certificate of Completion Required)
 Intermediate Grade: A doctor of chiropractic at the Intermediate grade meets the requirements for Full grade and the requirements in subparagraphs 3c(1) and (2): (1) A total of 4 years of chiropractic practice or its equivalent. Acceptable in lieu of 4 years of practice is completion of a 3-year full-time post-graduate residency program from an accredited U.S. chiropractic college, as evidenced by documentation of completion (e.g., transcript), which renders the doctor of chiropractic eligible for certification by a specialty board recognized by the American Chiropractic Association, the International Chiropractors’ Association, or the American Board of Chiropractic Specialties to obtain Diplomate status (Transcripts Required) AND Demonstrates a high level of professional attainment. Examples of such attainment are: (a) Is a recognized expert in dealing with a variety of unusually difficult chiropractic cases which are referred by other facilities for resolution and recommended courses of action to provide for maximum rehabilitation. Typically, in this capacity serves as a consultant to doctors of chiropractic or other professionals in other health care facilities. (b) Has assumed responsibility for a multi-faceted chiropractic program including clinical research and/or training requiring a high degree of competence and skill in developing innovative, new and advanced diagnostic and treatment techniques. Typically, the program is in an educationally affiliated health care facility having a chiropractic training program of moderate scope involving liaison with other medical services and affiliated schools. (c) Played a significant part in the conduct of research in a problem area of considerable scope and complexity that required novel approaches and which resulted in answers to important questions or important changes in existing methods and techniques. Publications authored by the doctor of chiropractic are of considerable value to others in the individual’s field. Typically, overall contributions are recognized by serving on important committees or other bodies in the profession. (d) Has full responsibility for carrying out a chiropractic training program of significant size in which the doctor of chiropractic is responsible for maintaining liaison with the affiliated school and other educational institutions and professional or scientific organizations. The individual has displayed innovative approaches in development of curriculum and course content and in expanding and improving the educational program.
 I am a current VA Health Professions Trainee in the process of completing my residency
 None apply


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙