Position Title
Materials Handler (Motor Vehicle Operator/Forklift Operator)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-26-13070293-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Materials Handler (Motor Vehicle Operator/Forklift Operator) position with Department of War. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Materials Handler (Motor Vehicle/Forklift Operator) WG-6907-06 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of a Materials Handler. I am skilled in performing the most difficult warehousing operations activities such as receiving, unloading, processing, storing, issuing, and re warehousing a wide variety of commodities such as medical supplies, linen, property book equipment, hazardous materials, and medical gases; planning storage layouts, ensuring proper space utilization, maintaining accurate stock balances, and ensuring safe movement and handling of hazardous and toxic materials in accordance with regulatory requirements. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks of a Materials Handler. I am skilled in receiving, identifying, sorting, storing, and issuing materials; operating forklifts and motor vehicles safely; building pallet loads; securing materials using appropriate methods; and preparing and maintaining movement, accountability, and inventory documentation. I can unload and load items using manual and mechanical equipment; screen documents for discrepancies; and ensure proper rotation, storage, and routing. I operate material handling equipment and vehicles safely in both indoor and outdoor conditions. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks of a Materials Handler. I am skilled in receiving and unloading incoming shipments; transporting materials using hand trucks or forklifts; organizing items for storage; assisting in palletizing and securing materials; scanning barcodes or entering basic receipt information; and performing routine operator checks on vehicles and equipment. I can follow established procedures for storing, locating, and issuing items. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of a Materials Handler such as basic receiving assistance, simple sorting of items, transporting lightweight materials using carts or dollies, and performing straightforward housekeeping tasks within storage areas.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙