Position Title
Purchasing Agent
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13065082-SE-RF-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If you fail to answer these questions, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Preference eligibles or veterans who have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after 3 years or more of active service, or applicants eligible to be considered under special appointing authorities for persons with disabilities, please answer "Yes" to the question below.

All other applicants who do not reside within commuting distance of the vacancy, please answer "No" to the question.

Do you reside within the local commuting area of the vacancy?

 Yes
 No


2.
To qualify at the GS-07 grade level, applicants must have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the federal sector. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular ability, skill, and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of this position and is typically in or related to this line of work.
 
Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the federal  sector that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience must include the following: Managing complete procurement lifecycle, including reviewing purchase requests, Independent Government Estimates (IGEs), developing accurate work statements, soliciting quotes, evaluating proposals, awarding contracts, and administering purchase orders. Performing price or cost analysis to determine price reasonableness and using negotiation techniques to secure the best possible terms and pricing for the government on pre-award and post-award actions. Using government commercial purchase cards, blanket purchase agreements (BPAs), simplified acquisition procedures (SAP), delivery orders against existing Federal Supply Schedules, and open-market purchases. Evaluating offers to determine the best value for the government based on price, delivery, and past performance.
 I do not meet the specialize experience requirements for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙