Position Title
Summer 2026 Human Resources Intern (Staffing)
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-DAS-12905314 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an internship position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions. WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be available to work in Washington, DC during the period of this internship. Are you available to work in the Washington, DC region during the duration outlined for this internship?

All internship opportunities are onsite at the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building. Telework is not permitted.
 Yes
 No


2.
This internship program opportunity requires completion of one full year of post-secondary education by the closing date of this announcement. Please note that a full year of post-secondary education is defined as 30 semester or 45 quarter hours. Please choose from the answers below the level that best describes your education.
 I have a high school diploma/equivalent (GED).
 I have successfully completed 1 year of education beyond the high school level.
 I have successfully completed at least 2 years of education beyond the high school level.
 I have successfully completed 3 years of study leading to a bachelor's degree.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as degree-seeking students, taking at least a half-time academic course load in an accredited two-year, four-year, graduate, or post-graduate program.

Are you currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a degree-seeking student in an undergraduate or graduate program, AND will you continue to be enrolled as a degree-seeking student in the next semester? (You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)
 Yes
 No


4.
In the space provided below, please tell us what school you are currently attending. (Please write the full name of the university - for example, Howard University and not Howard U.)



5.
In the space provided below, please tell us your anticipated graduation date. (As an example, please write using the following structure: Spring 2027, Winter 2027, etc.)



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be in good academic standing, maintaining a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Do you currently have a GPA of 3.0 or higher? (You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have a working knowledge of computer applications such as Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, and other data management applications?
 Yes
 No


8.
Please submit a narrative statement in the space provided below addressing your working knowledge of computer applications such as Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access and other data management applications (i.e. describe some of the things you can do/skills that you may possess). THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your responses to 500 characters or less.



9.
Please submit a narrative statement in the space provided below addressing your working knowledge of computer applications such as Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, and other data management applications (i.e. describe some of the things you can do/skills that you may possess). THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your responses to 500 characters or less


10.
How did you hear about this job announcement?
 USAJobs
 Handshake
 LinkedIn
 Career fairs
 Other


11.
If other was selected, please tell us how you heard about this job announcement.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient), for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙