Position Title
INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH SPECIALIST (WATCH OFFICER)
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13060459-X
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 22, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 9
 11
2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No
3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 FedExperience website
 USAJOBS website
 Community Organization
 Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 Friend/Relative
 Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 Magazine
 Newspaper
 School, College, Counselor
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 Other
4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable
5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No
6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.
7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 Navigating USAJOBS
 Writing Your Federal Resume
 Interviewing Techniques
 Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 I have not attended any sessions.
8.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
0906746
.
Specialized Experience for the GS-11, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as AT LEAST ONE of the following: -Experience preparing intelligence or other assessments in the fields of terrorist financing, money laundering, or Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) proliferation; OR -Experience with intelligence collection, processing, production, and dissemination principles and techniques. OR You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, if related; OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, if related; or LL.M., if related; OR You may qualify by a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 2 years may be combined with experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent as described above.
 I have completed requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I have a combination of the above-defined education and experience.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent as described above.
2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).
.
Specialized Experience for the GS-09, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as AT LEAST ONE of the following: -Experience assisting with intelligence collection, processing, production and/or dissemination principles and techniques; OR -Experience with basic intelligence concepts or practices. OR You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Master's or equivalent graduate degree, if related; OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, if related; or LL.B. or J.D., if related; OR You may qualify by a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours may be combined with experience.
3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-07 level or equivalent as described above.
 I have completed requirements for a Master's degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or a LL.B. or J.D. (if related).
 I have a combination of the above-defined education and experience.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-07 level or equivalent as described above.
4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).
