Position Title
Wildland Firefighter
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSDHA-27-13085066-CGR1
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 30, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)? For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public .
 Yes
 No
4.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm: You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL) . Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No
5.
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference. For more information about Indian preference or to obtain BIA Form 4432 application instructions, please visit: https://www.bia.gov/jobs . I am an Indian Preference eligible candidate.
 Yes
 No
6.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL) . Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 7 location(s).
 Grand Canyon, AZ
 Kingman, AZ
 Sierra Vista, AZ
 Tucson, AZ
 Yuma, AZ
 Agoura Hills, CA
 Apple Valley, CA
 Bakersfield, CA
 Banning, CA
 Barstow, CA
 Bishop, CA
 El Dorado Hills, CA
 El Portal, CA
 Essex, CA
 Jamul, CA
 Kings Canyon National Park, CA
 Lee Vining, CA
 Los Banos, CA
 Mineral, CA
 Olancha, CA
 Onyx, CA
 Ridgecrest, CA
 Riverside, CA
 Taft, CA
 Topaz, CA
 Whiskeytown, CA
 Yosemite National Park, CA
 Yucca Valley, CA
 Grand Junction, CO
 Rifle, CO
 Hawaii National Park, HI
 Boise, ID
 Jackson, MS
 Tupelo, MS
 Billings, MT
 Indian Preference Applies, Crow Agency, MT
 Indian Preference Applies, Harlem, MT
 Lewistown, MT
 Indian Preference Applies, Poplar, MT
 Indian Preference Applies, Zortman, MT
 Boulder City, NV
 Carson City, NV
 Elko, NV
 Las Vegas, NV
 Albuquerque, NM
 Indian Preference Applies, Dulce, NM
 Farmington, NM
 Grants, NM
 Las Cruces, NM
 Los Alamos, NM
 Indian Preference Applies, Mescalero, NM
 Roswell, NM
 Indian Preference Applies, San Juan Pueblo, NM
 Taos, NM
 Indian Preference Applies, Zuni, NM
 Carpio, ND
 Devils Lake, ND
 Medora, ND
 Pingree, ND
 Crater Lake, OR
 Hines, OR
 Klamath Falls, OR
 Lakeview, OR
 Medford, OR
 Indian Preference Applies, Umatilla, OR
 Vale, OR
 Saint George, UT
 Salt Lake City, UT
 Burbank, WA
 Cheney, WA
 Colville, WA
 Enumclaw, WA
 Marblemount, WA
 Othello, WA
 Port Angeles, WA
 Randle, WA
 Spokane Valley, WA
 Wenatchee, WA
 Indian Preference Applies, Fort Washakie, WY
 Rawlins, WY
 Rock Springs, WY
 Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone National Park, WY
2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 3
 4
 5
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
This position supports the Department of the Interior's mission and current priorities, including unleashing American energy, protecting and managing the Nation's natural resources and cultural heritage, and honoring its trust responsibilities and special commitments to tribes and communities. Describe how your skills and experience would help the Department advance these priorities in this role.
6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Survey Questions
1.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No
2.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment ( MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required documentation as part of my resume/application.
.
Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
3.
My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment and I have listed my work as Full-Time, Part-Time and have included hours per week worked. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 Yes
 No
4.
This position is a Primary Firefighter position and is covered under Special Firefighter Retirement. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must not have reached age 37 at the time of appointment, unless proof is provided of prior Federal service in another covered position. Acceptable exceptions : 1) Have not reached the age of 37 at the time of appointment.; OR 2) Has been in the Federal service in another covered position and will provide "to and from" copies of SF-50's showing I was covered under Special Retirement.; OR 3) A preference eligible veteran, and I am eligible to apply beyond my 37th birthday; OR 4) Over the age of 37 but under the age of 40. If selected for the position, may receive an opportunity to be considered for an MEA waiver. Please note: - If you are claiming to meet the exception for the mandatory maximum entry age based on prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57, you must include the appropriate SF-50s with your application that clearly document the periods during which you served in a primary covered position. - If you are claiming to meet the exception as a qualified veterans' preference eligible, you must include the appropriate veterans' preference documentation with your application. ** If you do not submit the required documentation for any acceptable exceptions listed above, you will be deemed ineligible for failing to meet the mandatory entry age requirements.
 I meet one or more of the exceptions above. I will provide supporting documentation to verify this requirement at the time of application.
 I do not meet any of the exceptions above.
5.
I have read the announcement and understand that Indian Preference (IP) will be applied to the locations below ONLY. I understand that IP will not be applied to locations NOT listed below. Crow Agency, MT Harlem, MT Poplar, MT Zortman, MT Dulce, NM Mescalero, NM San Juan Pueblo, NM (Ohkay Owingeh) Zuni, NM Umatilla, OR Fort Washakie, WY
 Yes
 No
WLFF GW-0456-03/04/05 DHA
.
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1.
I possess a valid State driver's license.
 Yes
 No
2.
I qualify for the GW-03 because:
 I have 6 months of general work experience or 6 months of Firefighter training obtained as part of a high school curriculum. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of general experience.
 I have one year of education or training above high school related to the work of the position. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts or training certification.
 I have a combination of education or training and general work experience as described above. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts or training certification.
 I do not meet the above responses.
3.
I qualify for the GW-04 because:
 I have 6 months of general work experience, which can be any work experience AND 6 months of specialized work experience equivalent to the GW-03 level duties. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 I have completed a 2-year course of study above high school in an accredited college or university in Fire Training, Fire Science, Fire Technology or in other related fields. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts.
 I have an equivalent combination of the education and experience specified above. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts.
 I do not meet the above responses.
4.
I qualify for the GW-05 because:
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to GW-04 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 I have a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, in Fire Science, Fire Training, Fire Technology or other related fields. I will provide a copy of my college transcript.
 I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement to qualify for this position. I will provide a copy of my college transcript.
 I do not meet any of the above responses.
5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No
