Position Title
Assistant Inspector General for Technology Solutions Division
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
DE-12940471-26-LDC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Plan Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
Are you a current Career Senior Executive Service (SES) member in the Federal government, a graduate of an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) approved SES Candidate Development Program, or an individual with SES reinstatement eligibility?
 A. Yes and I understand that I MUST submit a copy of my SES Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) or Qualifications Review Board Certificate AND must address each Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ).
 B. No and I understand that I MUST address each Executive Core Qualification (ECQ) AND each Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ).


2.
Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment within the past five (5) years?
 Yes (For each position held, please list the position title, agency, and dates of appointment. If you are selected for this advertised position, your appointment will be subject to final approval by the Office of Personnel Management.)
 No


3.
To qualify for this position you must meet one of the basic requirements described below. (You MUST submit copies of your proof of education unless you currently or previously held a 1501 position; failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement WILL result in an ineligible rating.)
 I have a degree in mathematics, statistics, or actuarial science. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience. Courses equivalent to a major field of study as shown in (a) above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 I do not meet the positive education requirement for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I am providing a copy of my completed annual performance appraisal that has been signed and dated within the last 12 months and shows my final rating OR providing a statement explaining why I am unable to provide a copy (i.e., your current employer does not provide them, you have not received one, etc.). Failure to provide a performance appraisal or a statement explaining why one is not being provided will result in a determination of an incomplete application and ineligibility for consideration for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙