Position Title
Systems Analysis & Reporting Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-HCS-13077426-DP-NBU
Open Period
Sep 30, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No
2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND , your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center . To verify your eligibility , you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Denver, CO
 Washington, DC
 Orlando, FL
 Des Moines, IA
 Baltimore, MD
 Detroit, MI
 Jackson, MS
2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 12
 13
3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Systems Analysis & Reporting Analyst 12/13 Minimum Quals
.
This vacancy is open ONLY to current Human Capital Services (HCS) employees and former VA career/career-conditional employees who are CTAP eligible.
1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of Office of Human Capital Service (HCS)?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.
.
TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.
2.
At the GS-12 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 or held the GS-12 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-12 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-11 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.
3.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 or held the GS-13 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-12 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.
.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.
4.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-12 Systems Analysis & Reporting Analyst position. GS-12 Specialized Experience - Applicants must demonstrate one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level. To be considered qualified, applicants must demonstrate experience in at least four (3) of the following: Analyze program and operational data by examining defined data elements, performance measures, workload information, trends, variances, or other measurable indicators to measure program performance, identify problem areas, and support improvements to program operations. Use SQL (Structured Query Language) to retrieve, filter, join, aggregate, or analyze data from databases or other structured data sources for program analysis or reporting. Use Power Query to import, clean, transform, combine, or prepare data from multiple sources for analysis and reporting. Use Microsoft Excel and business intelligence software to analyze data and create reports, dashboards, visualizations, performance measures, or other analytical products used to monitor program performance. Perform defined data-analysis procedures, including trend analysis, comparative analysis, variance analysis, workload analysis, performance measurement, or identification of patterns, discrepancies, and outliers to identify performance issues, inefficiencies, or operational concerns. Conduct data reviews to identify trends, discrepancies, problem areas, or inefficiencies that may affect program performance or operations and communicate the findings to management or other stakeholders. Apply knowledge of VBA laws, regulations, policies, procedures, or program requirements when reviewing program data or operations to determine whether activities comply with established requirements. Use documented analytical findings to support recommendations or corrective actions addressing operational challenges, compliance concerns, or opportunities to improve program performance.
 I have at least one year of experience to at least the GS-11 grade level and specialized experience as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.
5.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-13 Systems Analysis & Reporting Analyst position. GS-13 Specialized Experience - Applicants must demonstrate one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level. To be considered qualified, applicants must demonstrate experience in at least four (4) of the following: Conduct complex program and operational data analyses by examining defined data elements, performance measures, workload information, trends, variances, or other measurable indicators to evaluate program performance, identify operational challenges, measure effectiveness, and recommend improvements to management processes, systems, or program operations. Use SQL (Structured Query Language) to retrieve, query, join, filter, aggregate, or analyze data from multiple tables, databases, or structured data sources to support complex program analysis, reporting, or management decision-making. Use Power Query to import, clean, transform, combine, or prepare datasets from multiple sources for recurring analysis, reporting, or business intelligence purposes. Use Microsoft Excel and business intelligence software to analyze datasets and develop reports, dashboards, visualizations, performance measures, or other analytical products used to communicate program results and support data-driven decisions. Perform defined data-analysis procedures, including trend analysis, comparative analysis, variance analysis, workload analysis, performance measurement, forecasting, benchmarking, or identification of patterns, discrepancies, and outliers, to evaluate program performance and identify operational risks, inefficiencies, or areas requiring corrective action. Conduct comprehensive reviews of program data or operational information to identify trends, discrepancies, performance gaps, inefficiencies, operational risks, or emerging issues and translate the findings into actionable recommendations for program or process improvement. Interpret and apply VBA laws, regulations, policies, procedures, or program requirements when analyzing program operations, evaluating compliance, identifying deficiencies, or recommending corrective actions. Evaluate program operations for compliance and effectiveness by comparing program data, practices, or outcomes against established VBA requirements and recommending actions to improve compliance, operational efficiency, or program performance.
 I have at least one year of experience to at least the GS-12 grade level and specialized experience as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.
.
As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.
