Position Title
Community Recreation Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12925182 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist position at the Community Recreation Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.
Please select the following as it relates to your educational and/or professional experience:

You must include all copies of transcripts in order to be considered. Resume must fully support response

.*Related field includes Outdoor Recreation, Marketing, Business, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, special populations recreation (e.g. senior citizens, institutional, etc.), or Physical Education.
 Four-year degree in Recreation or related field*.
 Three years of equivalent recreation related work experience.
 Three years of customer service and/or activity based functions.
 Combination of recreation related experience with post-high school education in a recreation or related subject area.*
 None of the above.


2.
What is your experience level with programming for recreation/leisure activities?
 Beginner: I am familiar with assisting in coordinating events such as set-up,
 Advanced: I have coordinated and hosted programs independently with minimal supervision.
 Expert: I have coordinated multiple events simultaneously with no supervision. Comfortable with tasks such as obtaining equipment, establishing schedules, contracting entertainment, etc.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙