Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12889783-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Equipment Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equiptment Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Engineering Equipment Operator tasks which include operating a bulldozer to distribute and push earth in making cuts or fills, piling earth, building embankments, back-filling, and in tamping and spreading building materials such as gravel, crushed stone, and clay gravel; operating a variety of equipment including front-end loaders, backhoes, trench diggers, and a dump truck to cut, move, excavate, dig, load unload and transport earth, sand, stone, and other materials; and operating mobile cranes 20-ton capacity, equipped with 40-to-100-foot boom, using such attachments as block and lines with multiple loading hooks, rope or cable sling, drum and ton container hooks, lifting magnet, clamshell bucket, and dragline bucket, in performing a variety of tasks such as loading, unloading, and moving of chemical material, including toxic and irritant materials, weapons and spare parts, bauxite, fluorspar, and other strategic materials stored. I am considered an expert in and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Engineering Equipment Operator duties which include operating bulldozers, front-end loaders, backhoes, trench diggers, and a dump truck to cut, move, excavate, dig, load unload and transport earth, sand, stone, and other materials. I am considered an expert in and work with a high degree of independence. I am skilled in Operating mobile cranes equipped with 40 to 100 foot boom, using such attachments as block and lines with multiple loading hooks, rope or cable sling, drum and ton container hooks, lifting magnet, clamshell bucket, and dragline bucket, in performing a variety of tasks such as loading, unloading, and moving of chemical material, including toxic and irritant materials, weapons and spare parts, bauxite, fluorspar, and other strategic materials stored. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Engineering Equipment Operator duties which include operating bulldozers, front end loaders, backhoes, trench diggers, and dump truck. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Engineering Equipment Operator such as bulldozer operations or I have received training on front end loaders, mobile cranes, and driving a dump truck.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙