Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12976254-26-NDL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bay Pines, FL
 B. Cape Coral, FL


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Dietitian position with our Bay Pines VA Healthcare System. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Full performance level for this position is GS-11.


Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements for the position of Dietitian.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a U.S. Citizen or Naturalized Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
REGISTRATION/CERTIFICATION: Candidates must be registered with the Commission on Dietetic Registration CDR.

All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Note: Applicants who hold the RDN credential have met the education requirement (e.g., bachelor's degree or higher) of CDR, as such this occupation is considered professional and scientific with a positive education requirement and the procedures in Part I, Chapter 4 of this Handbook will be followed when applying Veteran's preference.

Please select the statement that best describes how you meet the registration/certification requirement.
 Yes, I hold a RDN Credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, therefore I meet the education requirement of a bachelors degree or higher.
 I am a non-CDR registered applicant, but I meet the minimum qualification requirements. I have earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent and completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. I am pending CDR registration and applying for consideration at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level and I am willing to accept a temporary appointment.
 I meet the grandfathering provisions and have protected status.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position.


4.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

OR,

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college. (Transcripts Required)

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:(a) Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.(b) Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.(c) Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).(d) Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.(e) Ability to develop patient-centered goals.(f) Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.(g) Ability to collaborate with stakeholders
 At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-07.
 I have a Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college. (Transcripts Required) Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:(a) Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.(b) Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.(c) Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).(d) Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.(e) Ability to develop patient-centered goals.(f) Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.(g) Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.
 I do not possess the experience, education, and/or KSA requirement described above.


5.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11.

Experience. At least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:(a) Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).(b) Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.(c) Skill in developing patient-centered goals.(d) Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.(e) Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.(f) Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.
 I have successfully completed at least 1 year of experience as a registered dietitian equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09. Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation). (b) Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes. (c) Skill in developing patient-centered goals. (d) Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies. (e) Skill in collaborating with stakeholders. (f) Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.
 I do not possess the experience and/or KSA requirement described above.


RESUME REMINDER: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position. It is beneficial to add: education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible);
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008);
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week);
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙