Position Title
Master Control Center Technician
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
DE-13033683-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have a minimum of one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the GS-11 or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and includes all of the following elements:
• Knowledge of technologies used in the distribution of television and broadcast programming.
• Experience with television and broadcasting technologies.
• Knowledge of Master Control facilities which include operational procedures, and effective utilization of facilities.
• Knowledge of domestic and international common carriers used to transmit and receive programs via satellite or terrestrial circuits in order to coordinate remote interconnects integral to the production process.

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience with media servers, media grids, video editing software, and media controllers?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you understand signal flow within the facility and how it interfaces with incoming and outgoing circuits?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have experience with standard TV Master Control automation and routing systems and switchers?
 Yes
 No


5.
Select which of following TV Master Control systems, receivers, or equipment you have experience using regularly (select all that apply):
 A. Switchers
 B. Satellite receivers
 C. Remote Control Systems
 D. Remote Control Cameras
 E. Routing Switchers
 F. File Servers
 G. Frame Synchronizers
 H. Recording Systems
 I. Computer Controlled Equipment
 J. Patch Panels
 K. Intercom Systems
 L. I have no experience with using TV Master Control systems, receivers, or equipment.


6.
I have experience in a multi-channel automated TV Master Control or Broadcast Operations Center at a Television or Cable Station facility.
 True
 False


7.
Please select the one statement, which best describes your experience with television lighting standards, robotic camera, lighting and audio boards, switchers, and other equipment common to radio and television control rooms.
0] A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job while being closely monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised the performance of this task, or I am normally the person consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


8.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



9.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



10.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



11.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



12.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙