Position Title
Medical Records Administrator (Assistant Chief (ACHIM))
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13027979-26-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Administrator [Assistant Chief, Health Information Management (HIM)] position with the Tennessee Valley Healthcare System in Nashville, TN. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


DEFINITIONS.

Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is in health information management and is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current practice. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active practice, which is paid/non-paid employment as an MRT/MRA or related field such as medical coding, qualitative and quantitative health record analysis, Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act privacy and release of information, or preparation, maintenance, and management of health records.

Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference, or through other independent means.

Coding Certification. Mastery certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) or the American Association of Professional Coders (AAPC). To be acceptable for qualification, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level coding certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level coding certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies; however, current mastery level coding certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) - Physician-based (CCS-P), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), and Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).

Health Information Management (HIM) Certification. Higher-level health information management certification is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of HIM certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).

Health Data Analyst Certification. This is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must certify mastery in health data analysis. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of health data analyst certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current health data analyst certification includes Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA).


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d), "No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English." MRAs must be proficient in spoken and written English. See 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f). You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to meet the requirement of this position.


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


2.
You must have the following basic education and/or experience for the MRA occupation:
Experience: Three years of [creditable] experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of [health] records and health information systems [demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology,] medical records [procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery] systems.

NOTE: We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Please see the Required Documents section of the announcement for resume requirements. Your experience must be fully documented in your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week to receive proper evaluation. If any positions held are federal positions, you MUST indicate which GS level you held in the position(s).

OR
Education: [Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university [recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.] NOTE: Transcripts MUST be submitted with application package.

OR
Experience/Education Combination: Equivalent combinations of [creditable] experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. [For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, transcripts MUST be submitted with application package.

Select the option that best describes your basic experience and/or education.
 I have three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of [health] records and health information systems [demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology,] medical records [procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery] systems. I understand my creditable experience must be documented in my resume.
 I have successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology. I understand I must provide transcripts.
 I have the experience/education combination as listed above. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I do not have the basic education or experience listed above.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS. In addition to the basic requirements, the following must be met for the grade. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


3.
GS-12 GRADE REQUIREMENT: Do you possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) that demonstrates all the Knowledge, Skills, Abilities (KSAs) described at that level as listed below?
Skill in performance and process improvement techniques to develop and 9 implement new or improved solutions in health information management.
Ability to advise management and staff at various levels regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statutes, laws, and regulations.
Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies as they apply to health information management.
Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor and/or advise on current HIM processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
Ability to successfully apply principles and techniques of sound resource management (i.e., staffing, space, contracts, equipment).
Ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties, to include assignment of work, completing performance evaluations, selection of staff, and recommendation for awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions, when appropriate
 Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level as listed above; I understand that any experience must be documented in my resume.
 No, I do NOT possess the minimum required experience listed above. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


CERTIFICATION. This higher-level health information management certification is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of HIM certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA). The only acceptable proof of this certification must be provided from this website: https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx


4.
Do you have a current AHIMA Health Information Management (HIM) certification as RHIA and/or RHIT?
 Yes, I have one or both current AHIMA certifications as a Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and/or Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), and I have provided proof of this certification with my application from this website: https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx
 No, I do not have either the AHIMA RHIA or RHIT HIM certification.


DEMONSTRATED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES (KSAs). 

Medical Records Administrator (Assistant Chief, HIM), GS-12, must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Skill in managing various projects and processes, which includes the ability to develop new or improved solutions to complex technical problems in health information management.
Ability to advise management and staff on a wide range of health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statutes, laws and regulations.
Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor and/or advise on current health information management processes, and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical and regulatory guidelines, and accrediting bodies as they apply to health information management.
Ability to successfully apply principles and techniques of sound resource management (i.e., staffing, space, contracts, equipment).
Ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties to include assignment of work, completing performance evaluations, selection of staff and recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions.

NOTE: These KSAs must be documented in your resume.


5.
Can you demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administrator (Assistant Chief (ACHIM), GS-12, that are listed above?
 Yes, I can demonstrate the Medical Records Administrator (Assistant Chief, HIM), GS-12, KSAs, and these KSAs are documented in my resume.
 No, I cannot demonstrate the Medical Records Administrator (Assistant Chief, HIM), GS-12, KSAs listed above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙