Position Title
Dentist (Chief Dental Officer)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
EDG-26-13052036 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


7.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


8.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


9.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


10.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


11.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.

Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position.

A. Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from a school approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) or the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

AND

B. Applicants must have passed the National Board Dental Examinations (NBDE) which are developed and administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.

AND

C. Applicants must have one or more full years of experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing professional dentistry work for GS-12 level and above assignments. AND

D. Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color.

Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?

 Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above.
 No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST provide transcripts and dental license documentation to receive consideration. Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to meeting the above basic requirements, Applicants must have completed a 3-year residency program in dentistry, oral health, craniofacial sciences, or a related medical science; or have equivalent experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, and/or training.

Do you meet the additional requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT for this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications.

Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section?
 Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation.
 No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Chief, Dental Officer position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.
You are treating a 58-year-old inmate who has lost multiple teeth over the years and presents with significant functional and aesthetic concerns. During your examination, you note that the patient has retained several abutment teeth with adequate periodontal support in the maxillary arch, mobile anterior teeth requiring stabilization in the mandibular arch, and a posterior tooth requiring both crown restoration and foundational support due to extensive decay below the gum line. The patient reports difficulty chewing and requests a comprehensive solution. You must develop a treatment plan that addresses all these complex restoration needs.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate treatment planning approach in this situation?

 Focus on the most straightforward interventions by restoring the decayed tooth with amalgam fillings, providing the patient with a complete denture set that opposes each other, and scheduling a follow-up appointment to monitor the mobile teeth for future extraction and denture adjustment as needed.
 Design and deliver a maxillary removable partial denture to address the missing teeth, restore the posterior tooth with a temporary crown, create a three-unit fixed bridge to replace an edentulous space, and provide quadrant dentistry to address the remaining restorative needs in a systematic approach.
 Design and deliver an overdenture utilizing the retained abutment teeth for support, place periodontal intracoronal splinting with wire and composite to stabilize the mobile anterior teeth, perform occlusal equilibration to ensure proper bite alignment, and design and place a cast post in the posterior tooth to provide adequate foundation for crown restoration.
 Extract all remaining teeth to simplify the treatment approach, fabricate custom-fitted nightguards to protect the patient's jaw during the healing phase, and design complete dentures that oppose each other to provide full restoration once healing is complete.
 None of the above.


2.
An inmate presents to the dental clinic complaining of severe, spontaneous pain in the lower left jaw that worsens with hot or cold stimuli and keeps him awake at night. Your clinical examination reveals a first molar with extensive decay, tenderness to percussion, and mild swelling in the adjacent tissue. Radiographic imaging shows periapical radiolucency and the tooth tests non-responsive to pulp vitality testing. You also note subgingival caries extending below the tissue line. Additionally, you need to obtain comprehensive diagnostic imaging for treatment planning. The patient has a history of poor oral hygiene and requires a treatment approach that addresses both the immediate problem and underlying disease process.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate diagnostic and treatment approach in this situation?

 Diagnose the condition as an abscessed anterior tooth with irreversible pulpitis, perform root canal treatment using gutta-percha technique, conduct an oral cancer screening examination, perform root planing and scaling to address periodontal disease classification, and take periapical and bitewing radiographs for documentation.
 Diagnose the abscessed bicuspid tooth with necrotic pulp, provide endodontic treatment using gutta-percha technique, diagnose and treat any presenting oral infections such as thrush if evident, provide preventative periodontal treatment appropriate for patients with systemic conditions, and take, mount, and interpret a full mouth radiographic series.
 Diagnose irreversible pulpitis in the abscessed necrotic molar, provide comprehensive endodontic treatment using gutta-percha on the molar tooth, lay a full-thickness mucosal flap to access and restore the subgingival caries, properly take and interpret panoramic and occlusal radiographs to assess the full extent of pathology, and develop a preventative care plan for ongoing maintenance.
 Extract the problematic molar tooth to eliminate the source of infection, manage the post-operative complications including potential dry socket and bleeding, perform incision and drainage if infection persists, suture the extraction site using appropriate techniques, and take bitewing radiographs to confirm complete tooth removal.
 None of the above.


3.
You are the Chief Dental Officer at a federal correctional facility and have been assigned a 62-year-old inmate patient who has significant cognitive limitations due to a traumatic brain injury, making it difficult for him to understand and retain health information. The patient also exhibits behavioral challenges, becoming agitated and resistant during previous dental appointments. He has developed multiple root caries due to poor oral hygiene practices and medication-induced dry mouth. The patient is housed in a special management unit with other inmates requiring accommodated care. You need to develop an effective communication strategy and educational program that addresses his unique needs while ensuring he can maintain his oral health within the institutional setting.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate patient instruction and counseling approach in this situation?

 Provide straightforward instruction by demonstrating proper tooth brushing and flossing techniques using a model, explain how tooth decay and periodontal disease develop in simple terms to increase the patient's health literacy, and discuss the preventative benefits of fluorides and sealants using visual aids that he can reference later.
 Schedule a standard patient education session where you explain the relationship between good oral hygiene practices and nutrition as they relate to dental caries and periodontal disease, describe how basic nutrition and abstinence from tobacco and alcohol contribute to oral health, and counsel the patient regarding risk factors for developing oral cancer.
 Develop a specialized oral health program specifically designed for patients with cognitive limitations that uses repetitive, simplified instructions about root caries prevention and related health problems affecting geriatric patients, incorporate behavior management techniques to address his agitation and resistance, and coordinate with correctional staff and medical personnel to ensure consistent reinforcement of oral hygiene protocols within the institutional setting.
 Refer the patient to the facility's medical unit for a comprehensive behavioral health evaluation, provide written instructions about basic oral hygiene that correctional staff can review with him daily, and schedule more frequent dental appointments to monitor his oral health status and perform professional cleanings to compensate for his limited self-care abilities.
 None of the above.


4.
You are evaluating a 35-year-old inmate who reports pain and swelling in the lower right posterior area of his mouth. Clinical examination reveals a soft tissue impacted third molar that is partially erupted and causing recurrent pericoronitis. You also identify a raised, firm lesion on the buccal mucosa measuring approximately 8mm that the patient reports has been slowly growing over the past six months. The patient has a history of trauma to the area. Additionally, you note gingival recession on the lower anterior teeth requiring mucogingival intervention to prevent further bone loss. During your examination, you identify the need for both diagnostic and therapeutic surgical procedures to address these multiple concerns comprehensively.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate surgical approach in this situation?

 Perform a simple extraction on the partially erupted third molar since the crown is accessible, manage the surgical site post-operatively for potential complications such as dry socket and infection, perform an incisional biopsy of the oral lesion by removing a representative sample for pathological examination, and use appropriate suturing techniques for wound closure.
 Extract the soft tissue impacted third molar using appropriate sectioning techniques for multi-rooted molar teeth, provide care for the mucosal tissue through suturing and post-operative management protocols, perform an incisional biopsy of the oral lesion to obtain tissue for diagnostic analysis, and perform simple alveoplasty to smooth the bone contour in the extraction site.
 Perform extraction of the soft tissue impacted third molar using surgical exposure and removal techniques appropriate for impacted teeth, perform a complete excisional biopsy by removing the entire lesion with margins for definitive diagnosis, lay a full-thickness mucogingival flap on the lower anterior teeth to address the gingival recession and perform mucogingival surgery with appropriate flap management, and if indicated by patient history, provide treatment planning for potential avulsed teeth management protocols.
 Refer the patient to an oral surgeon at a contracted facility for extraction of the impacted third molar due to the complexity of the case, perform incision and drainage of the swollen area using standard I & D techniques to manage the infection, extract adjacent teeth that show signs of periodontal involvement using simple extraction techniques for single-rooted teeth, and suture all surgical sites using interrupted suture techniques.
 None of the above.


5.
As the Chief Dental Officer at a federal correctional facility, you oversee a dental department that includes two staff dentists, three dental assistants, and one dental hygienist. One of your dental assistants has expressed interest in advancing their career and taking on more responsibility. Simultaneously, you have been tasked with implementing a new electronic dental records system that requires coordination across multiple departments including medical services and information technology. Your Regional Dental Director has also asked you to serve temporarily in an expanded capacity while the neighboring facility's Chief Dental Officer is on extended medical leave. You need to ensure your team performs effectively, meets compliance standards, receives professional development opportunities, and successfully implements the new system while managing these additional leadership responsibilities.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory and staff development approach in this situation?

 Advise your team members on the correct interpretation of the new electronic dental records policy procedures, assist the interested dental assistant in completing their current assigned tasks within deadlines to demonstrate readiness for advancement, and train all staff members in the new departmental procedures for the electronic records system to ensure compliance.
 Take on the role of leader for the dental department by directing team members in their daily responsibilities, ensure all staff members complete their assignments in a timely fashion with minimal need for your supervision by establishing clear expectations and deadlines, and serve as the project leader for the electronic dental records implementation which requires cooperation from medical services and information technology departments outside your immediate work group.
 Accept the temporary expanded supervisory duties at the neighboring facility and participate in the management mentoring program offered by the Regional Dental Director to enhance your leadership capabilities, conduct systematic reviews of your subordinates' work to ensure compliance with Bureau of Prisons dental policies and procedures, lead your dental team as a cohesive work group to achieve the specific objective of successfully implementing the electronic dental records system, and collaborate on this cross-departmental project with medical services and information technology personnel to achieve the broader agency objective of system-wide implementation.
 Delegate the electronic records implementation project to your most experienced staff dentist to provide them with leadership development experience, focus your efforts on the temporary assignment at the neighboring facility, schedule monthly staff meetings to monitor progress on departmental goals, and recommend the interested dental assistant for external training programs that could enhance their qualifications for future promotion opportunities.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙