Position Title
MECHANICAL ENGINEER- DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-083003-13042353-CL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item.


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your HIGHEST level of education/experience relevant to the position of Mechanical Engineer, NH-0830-03.
 A Bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 Combination of Education and Experience: College-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. Click here to view occupational requirements for this position.
 I do not have the experience or education as reflected above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of this position.


2.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your HIGHEST level of experience relevant to the position of Mechanical Engineer, NH-0830-03. NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have at least 52 weeks, or will have within 90 days of the closing date of this announcement, of specialized experience at the next lower grade (GS-12) or equivalent. Specialized experience must include to serve as a senior professional mechanical engineer with project management, execution, and operational responsibility in assigned area(s). Employee is considered the technical expert for the organization in engineering assignments concerning mechanical systems and subsystems of aircraft, as well as the mechanical mechanisms and/or components of related subsystems. Provides technical leadership and management in activities involved in the design, development, commission, manufacture, operation, maintenance, and disposal of mechanical devices, systems, their equipment, and/or components. Work encompasses several phases of the development process in which the employee guides and evaluates the design and development activities of others.
 I do not have the specialized experience as reflected above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of this position.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙