Position Title
MARINE INSPECTOR APPRENTICE
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13002504-SE-DB-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mobile, AL
 B. Houma, LA
 C. Morgan City, LA
 D. New Orleans, LA
 E. Corpus Christi, TX
 F. Houston, TX
 G. Port Arthur, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-11 (full performance GS-12) position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
GS-11 - Choose one answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position:

Specialized experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular ability, skill, and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of this position and is typically in or related to this line of work. Specialized experience includes: Inspect all required navigation, intra-vessel communication, alarm, lifesaving, firefighting, and pollution prevention systems on a vessel to ensure that they are operating properly and in compliance with applicable national and international standards, Review technical drawings of vessels and vessel systems for evaluating compliance with regulations and standard, Prescribing corrective actions for discrepancies utilizing Marine Information for Safety and Law Enforcement (MISLE) or similar database systems.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement
 I have completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education OR possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
 I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


2.
GS-12 - Choose one answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position:

Specialized experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular ability, skill, and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of this position and is typically in or related to this line of work. Specialized experience includes:  Inspect all required navigation, intra-vessel communication, alarm, lifesaving, firefighting, and pollution prevention systems on a vessel to ensure that they are operating properly and in compliance with applicable national and international standards, Review technical drawings of vessels and vessel systems for evaluating compliance with regulations and standard, Prescribing corrective actions for discrepancies utilizing Marine Information for Safety and Law Enforcement (MISLE) or similar database systems, Reviews of vessel's plans, safety management systems and operating systems to determine compliance with regulations and applicable standards for foreign flag vessels.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙