Position Title
Executive Director Medical Center (Physician, Dentist, Podiatrist) NAT 57
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFN-13050499-26-DSS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Montgomery, AL
 B. Anchorage, AK
 C. Long Beach, CA
 D. San Francisco, CA
 E. Tampa, FL
 F. Atlanta, GA
 G. Honolulu, HI
 H. Boise, ID
 I. North Chicago, IL
 J. New Orleans, LA
 K. Minneapolis, MN
 L. Biloxi, MS
 M. Jackson, MS
 N. Albuquerque, NM
 O. Brooklyn, NY
 P. Hampton, VA
 Q. Walla Walla, WA
 R. Huntington, WV


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0602 - Medical Officer
 B. 0668 - Podiatrist
 C. 0680 - Dental Officer


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Applicants must meet the below educational requirement in order to minimally qualify:

Physicians (series 602) must meet requirements as established in VA Handbook 5005/113, Part II, Appendix G2, and PHYSICIAN QUALIFICATION STANDARD, dated April 1, 2020. Physical requirements: please see VA Director and Handbook 5019.
Basic Requirements:
a. Citizenship. Be a Citizen of the United States. (Noncitizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S. S 474(a)).
b. Proficiency in spoken and written English
c. Education - Degree of Doctor of Medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:
Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, or
Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted.
For foreign medical graduates not covered in (1) or (2) above, facility officials must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed by the applicant. [If the applicant does not claim an ECFMG certificate, facility officials must still confirm that the medical school meets (or met) ECFMG eligibility requirements for the year the candidate graduated.
NOTE: The Under Secretary of Health or designee in the VHA Central Office may approve the appointment under authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405 of a physician graduate of a school of medicine not covered above if the candidate is to be assigned to a research, academic, or administrative position with no patient care responsibilities. The appointment will be made only in exceptional circumstances where the candidate's credentials clearly demonstrate high professional attainment or expertise in the specialty area.

d. Licensure and Registration. Physicians must possess a current, full and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The physician must maintain current registration in the state of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure.

e. Residency Training. Physicians must have completed residency training, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. (NOTE: VA physicians involved in academic training programs must be required to be board certified for faculty status.) Approved residencies are:
Those approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), OR
Those approved by the American Osteopathic Association (AOA), OR
Other residencies (non-US residency training programs followed by a minimum of five years of verified practice in the United States), which the local Medical Staff Executive Committee deems to have provided the applicant with appropriate professional training and believes has exposed the physician to an appropriate range of patient care experiences. NOTE: Residents currently enrolled in ACGME/AOA accredited residency training programs and who would otherwise meet the basic requirements for appointment are eligible to be appointed as "Physician Resident Providers" (PRPs). PRPs must be fully licensed physicians (i.e., not a training license) and may only be appointed on an intermittent or fee-basis. PRPs are not considered independent practitioners and will not be privileged; rather, they are to have a "scope of practice" that allows them to perform certain restricted duties under supervision. Additionally, surgery residents in gap years may also be appointed as PRPs.
Dentist (series 680) must meet requirements as established in VA Handbook 5005/113, Part II, Appendix G2, and DENTIST QUALIFICATION STANDARD, dated April 1, 2020. Physical requirements: please see VA Director and Handbook 5019.
Dentist Basic Educational Requirement:
Education. Degree of doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine resulting from a course of education in dentistry. The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:
1. United States and Canadian schools of dentistry listed by the Commission on Dental Accreditation(CODA), in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
2. Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia as qualifying for full and unrestricted licensure provided the licensure requirements include a written examination measuring science achievement and a performance examination measuring clinical competence.

Residency or Comparable Experience. Completion of an approved residency program in general practice or specialty, or comparable experience as a dentist actively involved in treating medically compromised patients.
Note: The appointing official may approve, under unusual circumstances, a waiver or Residency or Comparable Experience.

d. Licensure and Registration
(1) Dentist (Except Residents). Current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. The dentist must maintain current registration in the State of Licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure.

Podiatrist Qualification Standard (series 668) must meet requirements as established in VA Handbook 5005/114, Part II, Appendix G4, and PODIATRIST QUALIFICATION STANDARD, dated April 1, 2020. Physical requirements: please see VA Director and Handbook 5019.
Podiatrist Basic Educational Requirement:
U.S. citizenship. Candidates must be a United States citizen. (Noncitizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens, in accordance with Chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g).
Education. Applicant must possess a doctor of podiatric medicine degree, or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in podiatric medicine and surgery. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed.
(1) Approved schools are United States schools of podiatric medicine and surgery, approved by the Council of Podiatric Medical Education of the American Podiatric Medical Association in the year in which the degree was granted.

NOTE: The Under Secretary of Health or designee in Central Office may approve the appointment under authority of 38 U.S.C 7405 for podiatric graduate of a school of medicine not covered above if the candidate is to be assigned to a research, academic, or administrative position with no patient care responsibilities. The appointment will be made only in exceptional circumstances where the candidate's credentials clearly demonstrate high professional attainment or expertise in the specialty area.

Licensure or Registration. Applicants must possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The podiatrist must maintain current registration in the state of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure. 

Residency Training. Podiatrist must have completed residency training, or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. VA Podiatrists involved in academic training programs may be required to be board-certified for faculty status. Approved residencies are:
1. Those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, the Council on Podiatric Medical Education, in the list published for the year the residency was completed, or
2. Other residencies and training experiences, or their equivalents, which the local Professional Standards Board determines to have provided an applicant with appropriate professional training.

To meet the minimum qualifications, applicants must possess all of the necessary requirements for this position, you MUST SHOW in your RESUME that you possess the five Mandatory Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) and submit Technical Qualification(s) (TQs) outlined below. Eligibility will be based on clear and concise accomplishments that emphasize your level of responsibilities, scope and complexity of programs managed, program accomplishments (with results), policy initiatives and level of contacts. Applicants can obtain a sample resume along with additional information regarding the Executive Core Qualifications on the Internet at http://www.opm.gov/ses/recruitment/qualify.asp.

Applicant must meet the qualification standards specified in the Veterans Health Administration VA Handbook 5005, Physician (Series 602), VA Handbook, Par II, Appendix G2; Dentist (Series 680) VA Handbook 5005/93, Part II, Appendix G3; and Podiatrist (Series 668) VA Handbook 5005/114, Part II, Appendix G4.
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants must have a current, full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry, medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The dentist, physician, or podiatrist must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure. Please provide proof of license in application package.

Do you currently hold a full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry, medicine or surgery, or podiatry in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


3.
DEMONSTRATED LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE:

In addition to the education requirements, applicants must possess the following technical qualifications and executive core qualifications (ECQs) required for this position. Typically, these qualifications would be gained through progressively responsible management or executive level assignments such as director of a region or program in areas of medical and healthcare leadership.

All applicants must show in their RESUME that they possess these specific technical qualifications and ECQs. It is highly recommended that your resume address your accomplishments in these specific competency areas or by writing narratives outlining your work accomplishments supporting these competencies. Failing to provide this information in your application package may result in non-consideration.

EXECUTIVE CORE QUALIFICATIONS (ECQs):

(1) Commitment to the Rule of Law and the Principles of the American Founding: This core qualification requires a demonstrated knowledge of the American system of government, commitment to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law, and commitment to serve the American people.

(2) Driving Efficiency: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to strategically and efficiently manage resources, budget effectively, cut wasteful spending, and pursue efficiency through process and technological upgrades.

(3) Merit and Competence: This core qualification involves the demonstrated knowledge, ability and technical competence to effectively and reliably produce work that is of exceptional quality.

(4) Leading People: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to lead and inspire a group toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, and to drive a high-performance, high-accountability culture. This includes, when necessary, the ability to lead people through change and to hold individuals accountable.

(5) Achieving Results: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to achieve both individual and organizational results, and to align results to stated goals from superiors.

TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (TQ):

(1) Knowledge of mission, organization, programs and requirements of healthcare delivery systems, and the ability to manage and direct a large healthcare facility.

Do you have the demonstrated leadership experience and technical qualification as outlined above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙