Position Title
Medical Records Administrator Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12988689-26-TJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Instructions: Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Administrator (Assistant Chief (ACHIM)) position with the Tuscaloosa VA. Below are the Basic Qualifications, please answer yes or no to each of the following questions.
 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one of the following Basic Requirements listed below: Please select Yes or No

(a) Three years of experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of medical records and health information systems. At least 1 year of this experience must be comparable to a GS-4 level position. An associate's degree in the health information field plus 1 year of experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of medical records and health information systems. NOTE: Successfully completed training for health information technicians in a school accredited by the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) at the time the program was completed may be substituted for 1 year of experience. No credit may be given for partial completion of such training.
OR, (2) Education. Education equivalent to a baccalaureate degree from an accredited university or college.
OR, (3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education may be used to meet basic requirements.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one of the following below: Please select Yes or No

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the GS-09 grade level that demonstrates the KSAs described at that level. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
OR,
(b) Education. Education equivalent to 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information.
(c) Demonstrated Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities
1. Skill in project management and process improvement, which includes the ability to develop new or improved solutions to complex technical problems in health information management;
2. Ability to advise management and staff about adequate medical record documentation, health information services, and/or computerized patient records based on current statutes and standards;
3. Ability to plan for, justify, test, assess, and/or advise about the use of current and future software programs or information systems, implement and integrate such products into current health information management processes, and recommend changes in policies or procedures;
4. Ability to interpret, implement, and apply knowledge of privacy and confidentiality requirements affecting individual patient/protected health information;
6. Ability to communicate and negotiate with professionals in higher level positions;
7. If the position is supervisory in nature, ability to plan, develop, direct, and evaluate health information or related functions;
8. If the position is supervisory in nature, ability to successfully apply principles and techniques of sound human resources management; and
9. If the position is supervisory in nature, skill in administrative management, i.e., budgeting, contracting, procurement, and property management.

 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


4.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose A (Yes) to certify that your answers are accurate and complete
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙