Position Title
ORDNANCE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12856943-AF-25-051 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 07, 2026 to Feb 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 AW - 145 MAI SQ) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 AW - 145 MAI SQ) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (SSgt/E5 and below)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-6641-10 Ordnance Equipment Mechanic.
 I HAVE experience or training which has provided the candidate with the knowledge and application of mechanical and electrical principles and the skill to perform intricate repair and adjustment of hydraulic and pneumatic components and devices.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-6641-10 Ordnance Equipment Mechanic.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training, 1) in repairing, rebuilding, modifying and testing a variety of major subassemblies, 2) in diagnosing malfunctions and determining repair in major components consisting of numerous assemblies, interrelated electrical, mechanical, pneumatic, and hydraulic assemblies, and components, 3) in the use of precision measurement equipment, or 4) interpreting and applying a variety of technical manuals and similar published materials.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙