Position Title
Security Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-13056810-26-MV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your qualifications for referral consideration. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions.


1.
From the responses below, please select the response which best reflects your education/experience for this position at the GS-5 level.

 EXPERIENCE: I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 level. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. In this particular position, examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Extracting information from various sources that requires considering and applicability of information and the characteristics and quality of the source, issuing security identification cards. Performing clerical assistance tasks in support of established programs (e.g., personnel, physical, information or industrial security) when such work requires, in addition to general administrative and/or clerical skills, practical knowledge of specific security administration.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study above high school. This education must have been obtained in an accredited business or technical school, junior college, college or university for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite. One year of full-time undergraduate study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business or technical school.
 COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: I have equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education. Equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience are also qualifying. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My education/experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
To meet the minimum qualifications at the GS-6 grade level, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at the GS-5 grade level. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. In this particular position, examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Using forms administrative tasks associated with the authorization and issuance of the personal identification card, a standardized identification badge designed to increase security related with physical access to Federal facilities and networks and logical access to computer systems. Obtaining, inserting, and correcting missing and incorrect data in Personnel Security files and automated systems. Assuring that paperwork related to the suitability process is forwarded for inclusion in the appropriate system of records, i.e., official personnel folders.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
To meet the minimum qualifications at the GS-7 grade level, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at the GS-6 grade level. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. In this particular position, examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Collecting appropriate background security information, tracking and reviewing data, completion of reports, maintaining databases and processing, must have the ability to enter, extract, and evaluate employee information via access to various computer databases, initiating, reviewing, and approving background cases related to the completion of suitability investigations, completion of reports, maintaining databases and processing, position risks sensitivity levels, pre-employment processes, log maintenance, electronic fingerprints, minor identification card troubleshooting, admin tasks associated with authorization of personal identification cards, special projects, performing audits, credentialing rules and regulations.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level.
 My experience and education are not reflected in the above statements.


4.
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of my statements are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (Be as detailed as possible.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER:  TRANSCRIPT(S) MUST BE SUBMITTED IF EDUCATION IS USED TO MEET ANY REQUIREMENT. CONFERRAL OF DEGREES EARNED SHOULD BE PRESENT ON TRANSCRIPT(S). UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS OK.


VETERAN'S DOCUMENTS REMINDER: In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes: A copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


TIME-IN-GRADE REMINDER: You must submit copies of all SF -50s to clearly demonstrate that you meet the 52 week time-in-grade (TIG) requirement. TIG means you have held a GS grade for 52 weeks [or are within two (2) pay periods/four (4) weeks of possessing 52 weeks] at the closing date of this announcement. Examples of SF-50s to include: Within Grade Increase(s), Promotion(s), and/or Appointment action(s).


OTHER DOCUMENTS REMINDER OF-306: Declaration of Federal Employment. This form will be used to determine your acceptability for Federal employment. Priority Consideration - Individuals who have special priority selection rights under the Department of Veterans Affairs Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) or the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Program (ICTAP) must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Federal employees seeking CTAP/ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.605(a) for CTAP, and 5 CFR 330.704 for ICTAP. This includes a copy of the applicant's agency Notice, a copy of the most recent Performance Rating, and a copy of the most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location. Please annotate your application to reflect that you are applying as a CTAP or ICTAP eligible. Additional Information on how to receive this priority consideration can be found at: http://www.opm.gov/rif/employee_guides/career_transition.asp#ictap (http://www.opm.gov/rif/employee_guides/career_transition.asp#ictap)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙