Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-OD-IMP-26-12997340 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from the Department of Health and Human Services? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 
 
You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our CTAP page for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible for CTAP? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently work at the National Institutes of Health (NIH)? If so, you may be eligible to apply to this vacancy announcement.
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent NIH employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility, access eOPF and open your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50):  Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."  If you are still unsure of your eligibility, contact the individual listed in the vacancy announcement for assistance.  
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package, before the announcement closes.  You can obtain a copy from eOPF.  
Select "Yes" to this eligibility question. 
Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as an NIH Employee?  If you work at NIH, select "Yes", submit the required documentation, and we will make the determination for you.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-11/12/13, position at our agency. For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience, training, or ability.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education/Experience requirements for the Contract Specialist, GS-11/12, position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
 I qualify for this position because I have at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I occupied a GS-1102 position on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements of a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-11, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education. To qualify on the basis of graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: performing recurring assignments in support of a local installation or in a centralized procurement activity; procuring supplies or services primarily through formal advertising, or through limited use of negotiation techniques; and/or evaluating bids or proposals for compliance with specifications or purchase descriptions and applicable clauses.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have a combination of post baccalaureate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My experience or education does not match the choices above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements of a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-12, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-12 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: serving as Contract Specialist responsible for all aspects of the contracting transactions from initiation to recommendation of award for the: (1) central procurement of commodities or services for several activities in a geographic area, or for an agency or a department; or (2) performing acquisition planning, preparation of price/cost analyses for designated actions, formulation of negotiation strategies, development of negotiation objectives, and negotiation of various types of contracts.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education/Experience requirements for the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-13, position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I have completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience was specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the GS-12 level, and provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position AND I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I have been employed as a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-13, since January 1, 2000.
 I am a current Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employee with an approved waiver of educational requirements and I will submit my waiver with my application.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


5.
Based on your response to the previous question, provide either the major field of study for your bachelor's (or other) degree AND the course title and credits that equate to at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Put "N/A" if your response was "B", "C", or "D" to the previous question.


6.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements of a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-13, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-13 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: serving in a position responsible for pre-award and post-award functions, including price/cost analysis, negotiation, and administration for services, materials, and equipment associated with research, development, test, evaluation, and production activities of one or more organizations, professional or technical services, reviewing and analyzing requests for the procurement of complex equipment, services, sole source and other required clearances, and preparing documentation.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


7.
The following question is not scored and is for the purpose of collecting information regarding the Federal Acquisition Certificate in Contracting, Professional Certification (FAC-C-PC), (previously FAC-C levels I, II or III), or DAWIA Contracting Certification.
 Yes, I have a current Federal Acquisition Certificate in Contracting, Professional Certification (FAC-C-PC), or DAWIA Contracting Certification.
 No, I do not have a Federal Acquisition Certificate in Contracting, Professional Certification (FAC-C-PC) or a DAWIA Contracting Certification.


8.
If you answered yes to question 7 and you hold a warrant, what is the maximum authority (dollar threshold)? If you answered no to question 7, put "N/A".


9.
I understand that as a condition of employment, I must obtain (within the timeframe established by the supervisor) and maintain a Federal Acquisition Certificate in Contracting, Professional Certification (FAC-C-PC) throughout the duration of employment in the position.
 Yes, I understand this condition of employment.
 No, I do not understand this condition of employment.


10.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will remove you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, I may be removed from further consideration or future employment.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙