Position Title
Child and Youth Program Cook
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13045956 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position requires a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education. You must provide documentation in order to be considered. Do you have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in cooking and food preparation.
 Able to modify and create complex recipes and prepare food in varying equipment and quantities.
 Able to follow complex recipes requiring multiple methods, ingredients, and steps.
 Able to follow basic recipes and processes to prepare food.
 Able to identify, measure, and prepare food items and ingredients.
 Limited or none.


3.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in ensuring food sanitation and safety in a shared cooking environment.
 Able to instruct other staff members on compliance with food sanitation and safety requirements (e.g., establishing proper routines, teaching temperature and timeline restrictions, explaining contamination dangers, etc.).
 Able to identify proper and improper handling of food ingredients and equipment (e.g., monitoring expiration dates, verifying cleaning checklists, etc.) to determine where training may be needed.
 Able to sanitize food-related equipment and surfaces such as utensils or countertops and assist others with such tasks.
 Able to meet basic hygiene standards.
 Limited or none.


4.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in inventory management.
 Able to manage, prioritize, purchase, and plan based on inventory quantities, usage statistics, and future needs.
 Able to identify shortages, overages, and time-sensitive items from among a large variety of inventory and adjust current plans accordingly.
 Able to track increases and decreases in quantities over time (e.g., month to month).
 Able to count and measure quantities.
 Limited or none.


5.
Select the response that best describes your experience in cooking and food preparation in large quantities.
 12 or more months working in quantity cooking and food preparation for large groups of around 50 or more diners (e.g., students in a school cafeteria, medium or large catered events, etc.).
 1 to 11 months working in quantity cooking and food preparation for large groups of around 50 or more diners (e.g., students in a school cafeteria, medium and large catered events, etc.).
 Experience working in quantity cooking and food preparation for small groups of diners (e.g., patrons in a small cafeteria, restaurant event groups, small catered events, etc.).
 Experience working in cooking and food preparation.
 Limited or none.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙