Position Title
Financial Technicain
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR 26-156 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the statement that best describes your specialized experience (at the NF03/GS-06 level). Specialized experience must demonstrate knowledge of accounting, budgeting, or financial management functions.
 I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience (at the NF03/GS-06 level) in a professional work environment.
 I have less than 1 year of full-time specialized experience (at the NF03/GS-06 level) in professional work environment.


2.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience in general bookkeeping, and/or accounting (e.g. basic accounting entries, working with general ledger accounts, comparison of projection to actual expenses, month end closing of financial statements, identifying discrepancies in accounts).
 I have 5+ years experience with the above.
 I have 3 - 5 years experience with the above.
 I have 1 - 3 years experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


3.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience with the Systems Applications and Products (SAP) Enterprise Accounting System.
 I have 3+ years experience with the SAP Enterprise Accounting System.
 I have 1 - 3 years experience with the SAP Enterprise Accounting System.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the SAP Enterprise Accounting System.
 I have no experience with the SAP Enterprise Accounting System.


4.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience with the following accounting software: Food Track, Rec Track and Qubica.
 I have more than 2 years of experience with the accounting systems listed above.
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience with the accounting systems listed above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the accounting systems listed above.
 I have no experience with the accounting systems listed above.


5.
Mark any forms or processes for which you have documented experience with on you resume.
 Daily Activity Record Summaries
 Inventory Controls
 Purchase Orders
 Transfer Documents
 Vouchers


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙