Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IO-26-CO-12930297 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Basic Requirement - Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): This section includes questions about the basic requirements for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for an Supervisory IT Specialist (PLCYPLN), GS-2210-13. 

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?
 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory IT Specialist, at the GS-12 grade level. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level of GS-12 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: Extensive experience is directly related to this position and has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully supervise and deliver enterprise Linux/Unix platform operations and security outcomes that enable VA mission services, including VHA clinical and public health, supporting systems. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level performing or leading work such as: supervising or serving as a technical lead for a workforce providing 24x7 production support; administering and sustaining enterprise server operating systems (e.g., Red Hat Enterprise Linux and/or Oracle Solaris, including virtualization/partitioning such as LDOMs/Zones) across Development, Pre-Production, Production, and Disaster Recovery environments; executing IT service management processes (incident/problem/change/release) using ServiceNow or equivalent; directing vulnerability, patch, and configuration-baseline compliance using enterprise tools and repeatable processes (e.g., ACAS/SCAP and patch/automation platforms such as BigFix and/or Ansible/Satellite/Puppet-equivalent), including remediation tracking, exceptions, and audit-ready evidence; implementing and overseeing information security controls aligned to VA 6500 and NIST-based requirements; managing reliability, performance, capacity, and continuity/DR readiness (including RTO/RPO support and recovery testing); providing technical advice and assistance to customers and stakeholders to translate mission requirements into implementable infrastructure plans; leading modernization initiatives (e.g., OS uplift, automation improvements, legacy reduction, and hybrid-cloud transitions) with risk management and measurable outcomes; and coordinating across cybersecurity, operations centers, network/storage teams, and vendors/contractors to deliver secure, resilient, and compliant platform services.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


Assessment 2
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed abilities.


1.
A critical Linux production server fails during mid-shift. What is the supervisor's FIRST responsibility?
 Ensure incident response procedures are initiated and staff are assigned per priority
 Begin troubleshooting personally before assigning staff
 Notify leadership before any action is taken
 Wait for Tier 3 escalation


2.
Under NIST incident handling principles, what is the most appropriate supervisory action during a security incident?
 Delegate response and disengage
 Focus only on system restoration
 Ensure containment, documentation, and communication occur simultaneously
 Immediately shut down all related systems


3.
A team member consistently misses SLA timelines for ticket resolution. What is the BEST supervisory response?
 Reassign all their work immediately
 Conduct performance counseling and identify root cause
 Escalate directly to HR
 Ignore unless customer complaints increase


4.
Which action BEST aligns with VA6500 security compliance for privileged access?
 Allow shared root accounts for efficiency
 Grant persistent admin access to all team members
 Use local account management without auditing
 Enforce least privilege and audit all administrative actions


5.
During shift operations, how should a supervisor ensure proper workload distribution?
 Assign work based on documented skillsets and operational priority
 Distribute work evenly regardless of complexity
 Allow team members to self-select all tasks
 Assign only urgent tasks and defer others indefinitely


6.
A major outage spans multiple systems and teams. What is the supervisor's primary coordination responsibility?
 Focus only on Linux systems
 Wait for upper management direction
 Coordinate cross-team communication and maintain situational awareness
 Assign all work to a single senior engineer


7.
Which metric is MOST critical for evaluating shift performance in operations control?
 Number of emails sent
 SLA compliance and ticket resolution timelines
 Time spent in meetings
 Number of escalations avoided


8.
Under NIST logging and monitoring expectations, what should a supervisor enforce?
 Minimal logging to preserve storage
 Logging only for failed events
 Logging only during incidents
 Continuous monitoring with centralized logging and audit trails


9.
A team member identifies a recurring system issue but does not document it. What is the correct supervisory action?
 Require documentation and knowledge sharing for repeatable issues
 Allow verbal communication only
 Ignore since issue is known
 Assign issue exclusively to that employee


10.
What is the BEST approach for mentoring staff in a Linux/Unix operations environment?
 Assign tasks without explanation
 Focus only on senior staff development
 Provide guidance, technical coaching, and feedback regularly
 Avoid involvement in technical growth


11.
Which action BEST supports configuration management under VA/NIST standards?
 Allow ad hoc system changes
 Document and approve changes through formal change management
 Make emergency changes without tracking
 Delegate all changes without review


12.
A vulnerability scan identifies critical findings. What is the supervisor's PRIORITY action?
 Delay remediation until next maintenance window
 Ignore false positives without validation
 Notify users before remediation
 Assign remediation tasks and track to closure per severity


13.
How should a supervisor handle conflicting priorities between operational tickets and project work?
 Prioritize mission-critical operations and SLAs first
 Focus on long-term projects only
 Split time evenly regardless of urgency
 Defer all tickets


14.
What is the MOST appropriate communication practice for a shift supervisor?
 Only communicate during outages
 Limit communication to leadership only
 Provide clear, timely updates to staff, leadership, and stakeholders
 Avoid written communication


15.
Which behavior BEST reflects supervisory accountability in VA IT operations?
 Delegating all responsibility to staff
 Owning team performance, ensuring compliance, and resolving issues proactively
 Avoiding involvement in technical decisions
 Focusing only on administrative duties


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙