Position Title
SUPV ATTORNEY-ADVISER (GENERAL)
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
CHAT-26-13000801-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Internal Candidate
To be considered as an internal applicant please respond to the below questions. (NOTE: If neither of the below apply, you will still be forwarded to the hiring official for consideration as an external applicant.)


1.
Please select the most appropriate response from the drop down menu. 

I am currently assigned to Headquarters, U.S. Army Material Command
I am currently assigned to U.S. Army Security Assistance Command
I am currently assigned to the Office of the Program Manager-Saudi Arabia Natural Guard Modernization Program
I am currently assigned to U.S. Army Military Advisory Group
I am currently assigned to U.S. Army Security Assistance Training Management Organization
I am currently assigned to the Capability Program Executive Office-Simulation, Training Test and Threat
I am currently assigned to the Threat Systems Management Office
I am currently assigned to Army Materiel Command Legal Center-Redstone Arsenal
I am currently assigned to Army Materiel Command Legal Center-Aberdeen Proving Ground
I am currently assigned to Army Materiel Command Legal Center-Detroit Arsenal
I am currently assigned to Army Materiel Command Legal Center-Rock Island Arsenal
I am currently assigned to the Headquarters, U.S. Army Installation Management Command
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command-Readiness
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command-Sustainment
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command-Training
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command-Europe
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command- U.S. Army Garrison Kwajalein Atoll
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command- U.S. Army Garrison Miami
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center-U.S. Army Garrison Natick
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Environmental Command
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Installation Management Command –Pacific
I am currently assigned to the Army Transportation Command (ARTRANS)
I am currently assigned to the Contract Litigation Intellectual Property Division (CLIP)
I am currently assigned to the U.S. Army Legal Services Agency (USALSA)
I am not currently assigned to one of the above legal offices


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙