Position Title
FFSP Clinical Counselor/ Family Advocacy Program Case Manager (Naval Air Facility El Centro Support)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12777033 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 01, 2025 to Aug 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Clinical Counselor position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess all of the following:

1) State or U.S. territory or license or certification that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as independent practitioner;

AND

2) Two years, full-time clinical experience post-master's supervised clinical experience;

AND

3) Possess at least a Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation in one of the following clinical fields:
Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.

AND

4) Two years of experience with working in the field of child abuse and domestic violence.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least 2 years of experience working with the dynamics of Domestic Violence and Child Abuse? Experience must be in clinical interventions and safety planning with both victims and offenders in domestic abuse.
 Yes, as described above, within the Department of Navy (DON).
 Yes, as described above, within the Department of Defense (DOD), but outside of DON.
 Yes, as described above, within a Government agency outside of DON or DOD.
 Yes, as described above, within the Private sector.
 I have no experience


3.
You must have demonstrated knowledge in the areas of various counseling approaches such as behavior modification, client-centered, rational-emotive, family systems, brief solution-focused, and reality therapies. How many years of experience do you have working with various counseling approaches?
 I have five (5) or more years experience providing different counseling approaches as describe above.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years experience providing different counseling approaches as describe above.
 I have less than three (3) years experience providing different counseling approaches as describe above.
 I have no experience.


4.
How many years of knowledge & experience do you have with Mental Health Crisis Response, Treatment Planning and Clinical Service Delivery?
 I have five (5) or more years experience with Mental Health Crisis Response, Treatment Planning and Clinical Service Delivery.
 I have three (3) or to five (5) years experience with Mental Health Crisis Response, Treatment Planning and Clinical Service Delivery.
 I have less than three (3) years experience with Mental Health Crisis Response, Treatment Planning and Clinical Service Delivery.
 I have no experience


5.
You must have demonstrated knowledge & experience providing comprehensive case management services; experience with clinical documentation and quality assurance practices. How many years experience do you have providing comprehensive case management service?
 I have five (5) or more years providing comprehensive case management services
 I have three (3) to five (5) years providing comprehensive case management services
 I have less than three (3) years providing comprehensive case management services
 I have no experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙