Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations)
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12902216-MP26-OIG Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the questions carefully. Responding "No" may result in loss of further consideration.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources..
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former Federal employee applying for reassignment, change to lower grade, or repromotion to a grade you previously held on a permanent basis? Select yes if you currently hold or previously held a permanent position at or above the grade level(s) posted in this vacancy announcement. (NOTE: If this position has higher promotion potential than you have held on a permanent basis, you must apply for promotion to receive consideration.)
OR
Are you a current Federal employee serving on a noncompetitive appointment? Select yes if you are currently serving under one of the following appointment types:  Schedule A 213.3102(u) for individuals with disabilities; Temporary/term appointment for 30% or more disabled veterans; Veterans Recruitment Appointment (Note: Employees serving on VRA appointments are only eligible for non-competitive consideration for positions at GS-11 or below).

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee applying for promotion?  Select yes if you have 52 weeks at the next lower grade AND the grade level or promotion potential of this position is higher than you have held on a permanent basis.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you applying for consideration under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)? Select yes if you are a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans' preference
To support your claim, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. 

Note: If you are also a Federal employee, you must submit documentation of time-in-grade and successful performance to receive consideration.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Please enter your Employee Common ID (ECI). Your ECI can be found on the first page of Employee Data. NOTE: The Employee Data website is only viewable from within SSA's firewall.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: READ ALL OPTIONS BEFORE CLAIMING YOUR FEDERAL STATUS - choosing incorrectly may cause you to lose consideration! Refer to your most recent SF-50 (blocks 24--Tenure and 34--Position Occupied) to assist in making your decision. Applicants with federal status must submit an SF-50 to support that claim, in addition to any other SF-50s that may be needed to support other claims (such as current or previous grade OR previous competitive service).


INSTRUCTIONS: NOTE: VEOA is a means of eligibility intended for applicants without federal competitive status. VEOA-eligibles will not receive extra points or priority consideration. A current or former federal employee who opts to file under VEOA is still bound by federal-status eligibility requirements and will be rated ineligible if those requirements are not met and demonstrated. If you have federal status and apply under VEOA, you must submit appropriate military documents in addition to all documents required for applicants with federal status. See REQUIRED DOCUMENTS for more information on how to demonstrate your eligibility.


INSTRUCTIONS: NOTE: ICTAP/CTAP: must be separated from federal (competitive service) employment due to a RIF or have received notification that you will soon be separated due to a RIF.


1.
Please read this entire paragraph before you select the statement that best describes your eligibility for this vacancy. Refer to the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section for information on the supporting documents you must submit. Applications without the proper supporting documents will be rated ineligible. Current federal employees may file under VEOA if applicable, but must still submit the documentation required for federal employees. Although veterans preference is used in determining eligibility under VEOA, veterans preference points are NOT applied when determining scores and veterans do not receive priority consideration. If your eligibility for the specialty you've chosen is not supported by your choice below and the proper documentation, you will be rated ineligible.

 I am a current career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service in SSA. (Refer to Blocks 24 and 34 of your most recent SF-50.)
 I am a current career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service at a federal agency other than SSA. (Refer to Blocks 24 and 34 of your most recent SF-50.)
 I am an excepted service employee CURRENTLY SERVING UNDER Schedule A (Reg. 213.3102 [U] appointment for individuals with disabilities); OR a time-limited appointment for veterans with a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more. (Refer to Blocks 24 and 34 of your most recent SF-50.)
 I am an excepted service employee in an agency or position with competitive service compatibility (e.g., Foreign Service, US Postal Service, etc.) or an agency with an Interchange Agreement). (See Required Documents for information on Competitive Service Compatibility and Interchange Agreements. Not all excepted positions or agencies qualify under this agreement.)
 I am a former competitive service employee eligible for reinstatement; i.e., separated from the federal government under a career-appointment OR within the last 3 years if you were under a career-conditional appointment. (Refer to Blocks 24 and 34 of your separation SF-50.)
 I am a former excepted service employee eligible for reinstatement; i.e., must have served in an agency or position with competitive service compatibility (e.g., the Foreign Service, the US Postal Service, etc.). (See Required Documents for information on competitive service eligibility. Interchange Agreements apply only to current excepted service employees, the privilege ends once you leave the service.)
 I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). (Current federal employees who opt to file under VEOA must still submit the documents required for current federal employees.)
 I am the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces or I am a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? -OR- Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
 My eligibility is not reflected above; i.e., I am serving in an excepted position not described in C, D or F, a term appointment, a federal contractor position, etc.) and am not eligible to apply for this position.


2.
Indicate your most recent performance appraisal. Performance Appraisals must be submitted as part of your application EXCEPT as noted below -- for information on acceptable documentation, see 'Performance Appraisals' under the "Required Documents" section.

 Within the past 12 months I received a federal performance rating of successful (or higher) and I am not currently serving under a formal Opportunity to Perform Successfully (OPS) plan ? I will submit a completed and signed copy of this performance appraisal.
 I am new to federal employment (e.g., less than a year) ? I have not received my first federal performance rating and am not currently serving under a formal OPS ? I will submit an SF-50 showing my most recent federal appointment was less than 12 months ago.
 I am new to my current federal position (e.g., less than a year) -- I have not received a rating for this position, but my previous federal performance rating was successful (or higher) and I am not currently serving under a formal OPS ? I will submit an SF-50 showing placement (e.g., promotion, reassignment, change-to-lower-grade) in my most recent position less than 12 months ago.
 I am a non-federal applicant eligible under VEOA or as a Military Spouse and do not have a federal performance rating.
 I am a former federal employee and will submit my separation SF-50 which shows I was not terminated for performance or conduct reasons.
 My most recent federal performance rating was less than successful OR I am currently serving under a formal Opportunity to Perform Successfully (OPS) plan.


3.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the grade 14 position.

 I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-13, or equivalent, performing ALL of the following: (1) Independently develops HR employee relations policies and procedure; (2) Independently conducts research and fact-finding of employee relations matters and inquiries and accurately applies applicable federal charges and penalties; (3) Provides high-level coordinative, analytical, consultative, and advisory, service to management regarding employee relations issues.
 My experience level is not described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙