Position Title
Education Service Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13027406K-TSN-1702-7T12 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7226) 3211 S Northpointe Dr, Fresno, CA
 F. (CA0281)1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 G. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 H. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 I. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 J. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 K. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 L. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 M. (MD0428) 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 N. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 O. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 P. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 Q. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 R. (NY6466) 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 U. (OR6728) 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 V. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 W. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 X. (PR4066) CARR 28 KM 2.0, Bayamon, PR
 Y. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 Z. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AA. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AB. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 AC. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 AD. (UT1428) 1973 N Rulon White, Ogden, UT
 B. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 C. (VA0088) 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 D. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 E. (WV0273) 1250 Edwin Miller Blv, Martinsburg, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


3.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


4.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


5.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


6.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


7.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


8.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


10.
What is your current position title?


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


13.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS:
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-7: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes
Assisting with task analysis, job performance studies, and needs assessments.
Assisting with the interpretation and application of policies in provided instructional manuals and interactive media field.
Assisting with the planning of system components, such as computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems.
Assisting with presenting findings and recommendations among colleagues and higher management by communicating both orally and in writing.
Assisting with training systems and computer-assisted training applications, including Integrated Talent Management (ITM), Adobe Connect and/or MS Teams, Technology Enabled Learning, Learning Content Management System (LCMS) and automated systems.
Assisting with the administration of Kirkpatrick or equivalent frameworks in support of training effectiveness reporting
OR At least one (1) full academic year of graduate education in a related field of study that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR Superior Academic Achievement may be met by having a Bachelor's degree, with one of the following: A GPA of 2.95 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study, or a GPA of 3.45 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
In order to be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled.
OR A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to that described above.

GS-09 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes:
Assisting senior specialists with developing policies in the instructional materials and interactive media field.
Determining the sources of information, suitability, and educational adequacy of material and methods, including the analysis of previously used course material and evaluations.
Presenting findings and recommendations among colleagues and higher management by communicating both orally and in writing as it related to customer learning and needs.
Planning and directing the development of system components, including on-line help and computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems.
Analyzes performance support tools and techniques to identify, evaluate, and make recommendations
Utilizing training systems and computer-assisted training applications, including Integrated Talent Management (ITM), Adobe Connect and/or MS Teams, Learning Content Management System (LCMS) and automated systems.
Analyzing level 1 and level 2 Kirkpatrick evaluation results to measure knowledge acquisition across assigned training programs
OR Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a related field of study that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and ability necessary to do the work.
OR Two (2) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and ability necessary to do the work.
OR LL.B. or J.D., if related.
OR A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience as described above.

GS-11 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include at least five (5) of the following:
Assisting senior specialists with the organization, technical direction, and the evaluation of learning events, including instructor led classroom and self-paced trainings.
Participating in interpretation study results and audience performance data to devise/revise education objectives, methods and materials.
Determining the sources of information, suitability, and educational adequacy of material and methods, including the analysis of previously used course material and evaluations.
Communicating both orally and in writing to present findings and recommendations, including briefings, correspondence, and project papers to colleagues and managers.
Utilizes resource management techniques to facilitate, collaborate, and negotiate within local and national functional areas, and various Service-level management.
Utilizing performance support tools and techniques to direct the development system components including on-line help and computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems.
Utilizing training systems and computer-assisted training applications, including Integrated Talent Management (ITM), Adobe Connect and/or MS Teams, Technology Enabled Learning, Learning Content Management System (LCMS) and automated systems.
Designing and implementing Kirkpatrick or equivalent evaluation strategies for assigned programs synthesizing multiple sourced data into actionable findings presented to training leadership.

OR Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR Three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work
OR LL.M. if related
OR A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience as described above.

GS-12 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include at least six (6) of the following:
Determining training solutions by analyzing user tasks, business processes, job performance studies, and needs assessments.
Providing leadership with prepared project data for the negotiation of securing resources for each project, which may include course development, preparation, and presentation.
Identifying learning objectives and instructional methods to ensure objectives are met, which includes writing lesson plans using appropriate design models.
Planning and conducting validity and reliability studies to analyze product components; develop recommendations for revising component items to improve products quality.
Leveraging development in performance support outside the organization to develop and expand performance support systems and their components for service application.
Communicating both orally and in writing with management to deliver briefings, correspondence and project papers.
Utilizing instructional methods and written techniques to review and/or develop course material, direct and advise team members, and provide consultation to subject-matter experts.
Providing resource management guidance to facilitate, collaborate and negotiate within a team environment and management officials.
Reviewing a comprehensive training evaluation framework such as Kirkpatrick and making recommendations that connect training outcomes to measurable results. 


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-7: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes
Assisting with task analysis, job performance studies, and needs assessments.
Assisting with the interpretation and application of policies in provided instructional manuals and interactive media field.
Assisting with the planning of system components, such as computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems.
Assisting with presenting findings and recommendations among colleagues and higher management by communicating both orally and in writing.
Assisting with training systems and computer-assisted training applications, including Integrated Talent Management (ITM), Adobe Connect and/or MS Teams, Technology Enabled Learning, Learning Content Management System (LCMS) and automated systems.
Assisting with the administration of Kirkpatrick or equivalent frameworks in support of training effectiveness reporting
OR At least one (1) full academic year of graduate education in a related field of study that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR Superior Academic Achievement may be met by having a Bachelor's degree, with one of the following: A GPA of 2.95 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study, or a GPA of 3.45 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.In order to be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled.
OR A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have at least one (1) full academic year of graduate education in any field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I have met Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) as described above.
 I have a combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above.


2.
GS-09 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes:
Assisting senior specialists with developing policies in the instructional materials and interactive media field.
Determining the sources of information, suitability, and educational adequacy of material and methods, including the analysis of previously used course material and evaluations.
Presenting findings and recommendations among colleagues and higher management by communicating both orally and in writing as it related to customer learning and needs.
Planning and directing the development of system components, including on-line help and computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems.
Analyzes performance support tools and techniques to identify, evaluate, and make recommendations
Utilizing training systems and computer-assisted training applications, including Integrated Talent Management (ITM), Adobe Connect and/or MS Teams, Learning Content Management System (LCMS) and automated systems.
Analyzing level 1 and level 2 Kirkpatrick evaluation results to measure knowledge acquisition across assigned training programs

OR
Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and ability necessary to do the work.
OR
Two (2)full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education in a field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and ability necessary to do the work.
OR
LL.B. or J.D., if related.
OR
A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience as described above.
 I have one-year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and ability necessary to do the work.
 I have two (2) full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in a field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and ability necessary to do the work.
 I have an LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of qualifying graduate education and experience as described above.
 None of the above.


3.
GS-11 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include the following:
- Assisting senior specialists with the organization, technical direction, and the evaluation of learning events, including instructor led classroom and self-paced trainings.
- Participating in interpretation study results and audience performance data to devise/revise education objectives, methods and materials.
- Determining the sources of information, suitability, and educational adequacy of material and methods, including the analysis of previously used course material and evaluations.
- Communicating both orally and in writing to present findings and recommendations, including briefings, correspondence, and project papers to colleagues and managers.
- Utilizes resource management techniques to facilitate, collaborate, and negotiate within local and national functional areas, and various Service-level management.
- Utilizing performance support tools and techniques to direct the development system components including on-line help and computer-based training and complete integrated performance support systems.
- Utilizing training systems and computer-assisted training applications, including Integrated Talent Management (ITM), Adobe Connect and/or MS Teams, Technology Enabled Learning, Learning Content Management System (LCMS) and automated systems.
- Designing and implementing Kirkpatrick or equivalent evaluation strategies for assigned programs synthesizing multiple sourced data into actionable findings presented to training leadership.

OR Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR Three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work
OR LL.M. if related
OR A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience as described above.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience.
 I have a PH.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a doctoral degree in one of the fields described above.
 I have an LLM, if related
 I have a combination or graduate education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above


4.
GS-12 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include at least six (6) of the following:
- Determining training solutions by analyzing user tasks, business processes, job performance studies, and needs assessments.
- Providing leadership with prepared project data for the negotiation of securing resources for each project, which may include course development, preparation, and presentation.
- Identifying learning objectives and instructional methods to ensure objectives are met, which includes writing lesson plans using appropriate design models.
- Planning and conducting validity and reliability studies to analyze product components; develop recommendations for revising component items to improve products quality.
- Leveraging development in performance support outside the organization to develop and expand performance support systems and their components for service application.
- Communicating both orally and in writing with management to deliver briefings, correspondence and project papers.
- Utilizing instructional methods and written techniques to review and/or develop course material, direct and advise team members, and provide consultation to subject-matter experts.
- Providing resource management guidance to facilitate, collaborate and negotiate within a team environment and management officials.
- Reviewing a comprehensive training evaluation framework such as Kirkpatrick and making recommendations that connect training outcomes to measurable results.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training


5.
Which of the following actions have you completed to analyze job information for training purposes?

 A. Reviewed job information to inventory the job tasks
 B. Identified the supporting skills and knowledge required to perform each job task
 C. Selected job tasks to address in training
 D. None of the above.


6.
Which of the following systems or programs do you have experience in?
 A. Training Evaluation Services (TES) Report
 B. Requisition Tracking System (RTS)
 C. Reserving training space using TRIRIGA
 D. Graphics in MS Word
 E. Learning Content Management System (LCMS) such as Integrated Talent Management (ITM)
 F. Kirkpatrick Model
 G. Adobe Connect
 H. Captivate
 I. None of the above


7.
Which of the following tasks have you performed in supporting the design of a training course?

 A. Reviewed course objectives developed by subject matter experts
 B. Reviewed summary exercises based on training objectives
 C. Created a level II evaluation to assess knowledge gained through training (for example, multiple choice test, case study)
 D. Designed a strategy to evaluate training effectiveness
 E. None of the above


8.
Of the tasks listed below, which have you performed during the annual training needs assessment process?
 A. Identified training gaps for a business unit
 B. Worked with business organization to Identify the reason for training need (for example, legislative changes, annual program updates, new program)
 C. Developed a cost analysis for training needs
 D. Collaborated with customers to develop training needs and budget
 E. Collaborated with customers to modify ad hoc training courses not included in the yearly training plan
 F. None of the above


9.
Which of the tasks listed below have you performed in a work environment?

 A. Set project priorities and goals
 B. Coordinated with others to meet goals
 C. Developed project plans
 D. Formally monitored project progress and outcomes
 E. Provided feedback on others work products
 F. Coordinated with customers to set deadlines for projects
 G. Followed up to ensure others are meeting their deadlines
 H. None of the above


10.
Which of the tasks listed below have you performed in managing a training project?

 A. Prioritized course development tasks
 B. Established project steps or goals
 C. Assigned project tasks to others
 D. Developed project timelines
 E. Formally monitored project progress and outcomes
 F. Provided feedback on others work products
 G. None of the above


11.
Which of the following do you have experience working with?

 A. Upper management
 B. Panels of subject matter experts
 C. Training coordinators
 D. Budget Analysts
 E. Vendors (for example, word processor, publishing)
 F. None of the above


12.
What activities have you completed that contributed to your work environment?

 A. Performed on-the-job training or coaching
 B. Developed new procedures that were implemented beyond my work group.
 C. Classroom instructor.
 D. Team lead or work leader.
 E. Taught a virtual e-learning course
 F. Served as a technical advisor.
 G. Developed work procedures that were implemented by my work group.
 H. Lead on a training course development project, such as the Kirkpatrick Model.
 I. None of the above


13.
Of the communications listed below, which have you performed?

 A. Communicated project plans and timelines to stakeholder points of contact
 B. Led conference calls or meetings
 C. Negotiated changes to project plans
 D. Modified project plans based on customer feedback or changing requirements
 E. Facilitated discussion to accomplish a task (for example, brainstorming session, task analysis)
 F. Led conference calls or meetings regarding training projects
 G. Worked with dissatisfied customers to resolve issues
 H. None of the above


14.
Which of the following products have you written or developed?

 A. Project agreements or work plans
 B. Training project agreements, including timeline
 C. Training course materials
 D. Reporting instructions for travelers (i.e., subject matter experts)
 E. Training evaluation assessment
 F. Status briefings to management or customer
 G. Technical documentation of completed projects (i.e., end of project report)
 H. None of the above


15.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙