Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
310-26-JP-12939635 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to Apr 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-13 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-14 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


1.
GS-14: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-13 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-13 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-13 level (or above). Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting time-in-grade requirements.


Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR): To qualify for a 0510 series position, candidates must meet the following basic educational requirements, in addition to Specialized Experience (one year of actuarial experience equivalent to the next lower grade level). If you do not submit a copy of your transcript, your application will not be considered: Education - Applicants must meet one of the following requirements:

Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")

OR

Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.


2.
Do you meet the documented requirements of the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) as follows:

 I meet the IOR education requirements noted above (AND in the vacancy announcement) and have submitted legible transcripts with my application.
 I do not meet the IOR education requirements noted above. Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting the IOR requirements.


3.
Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-13). Specialized experience is defined as experience in Specialized experience is defined as work that involves discretionary/mandatory budgets, risk management principles, and accounting principles. Specialized experience is further defined as:
Advising senior officials on the development, presentation, execution, and operational direction of all budgeting functions, to include reviewing budget estimates, identifying changes, making recommendations to management, and developing administrative cost estimates.
Providing oversight to Accounting personnel in the preparation of accurate financial statements by completing manual transactions in the General Ledger and Completing monthly reconciliations.
Overseeing and assisting with the completion of financial audits and financial reporting.
Advising management on the development, presentation, and execution enterprise risk management programs.
 I have one full year of GS-13 grade level experience described above and this experience has been clearly documented and supported in my submitted application documents.
 I do not have the specialized experience described above. Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting the specialized experience requirements.


4.
Eligibility: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Philadelphia Insurance Service employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.
 I am a current, permanent Philadelphia Insurance Service employee or current/former VA employees who is CTAP eligible.
 I am not a current, permanent Philadelphia Insurance Service employee or current/former VA employees who is CTAP eligible.


Your rating is subject to verification based on your resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit AND through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information is grounds for non-selection and/or termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process; my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service. I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 I certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete.
 I do not wish to certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title duties (be as detailed as possible), month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008), full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.


Merit Promotion Documentation Reminder - If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙