Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Specialis
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12931117-26-JAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) position. The following section is used to identify basic requirements for this vacancy. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you. In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional qualification requirements. Applicants pending the completion of registration requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Candidates interested in employment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) must meet the basic requirements for appointment.

NOTE: Applicants may qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria). The following questions pertain to the basic requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: Candidates interested in employment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist must meet the basic experience and/or education requirements. NOTE: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.

Do you have an Associate's degree in Biomedical Electronics Technology, Biomedical Equipment Technology or Biomedical Engineering Technology or in a related technical field such as Electronic Technology or Information Technology and two years of experience as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer, or Information Technology Specialist.

OR,

Bachelor's degree in Biomedical Engineering Technology or in a related field such as Electronics Engineering Technology (EET) or Information Technology.

OR,

Completion of a military training program in biomedical equipment and two years of experience as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist or Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer or Information Technology Specialist.
 Yes
 No


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 2, section D, paragraph 3a. Are you proficient in standard English?
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-07 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level? Creditable experience include, but are not limited to:
Provides support of basic medical equipment and systems to include, but not limited to: installation, preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, repair, calibrations and safety inspections.

AND demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

Ability to read, interpret, and apply a great variety of technical data such as schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, table charts, mathematical expressions and formulas.

Ability to learn equipment maintenance, operating procedures, and repair procedures from training materials and courses.

Fundamental knowledge of electronics to include analog, digital and microprocessor theory, pneumatics, hydraulics, optics, electro-mechanics, physics, basic networking, and chemistry.

Knowledge of the use of standard level test equipment to include, but not limited to, multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulator, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, tachometers, etc.

Knowledge of anatomy, physiology, medical terminology, medical equipment, and technology.

Knowledge of basic networking, computer/server hardware/software and information technologies and computer virus protection software, available software patches and upgrades, and information security tools (i.e. Microsoft Office, Windows operating systems, McAfee, etc.).
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-09 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Provides support of medical equipment and systems to include, but not limited to: installation, preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, repair, reliability, calibrations and safety; supporting basic biomedical equipment such as but not limited to infusion pumps; PCA pumps, feeding pumps, suction pumps, defibrillators, clinical video systems, hypo/hyperthermia units, vital sign monitors, physiological monitors, dental equipment, and other patient care devices; performs and documents all repairs and preventive maintenance activities; and ensures that the data is correctly entered into the medical equipment management computer system. Utilizes schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, and technical manuals as guidelines for accomplishing work. Uses specialized electronic test gear or software to analyze, evaluate, diagnose, troubleshoot, calibrate or repair analog and digital microprocessor controlled, computerized or networked digital systems. Makes determinations as to whether systems are safe for patient and operator use and initiates appropriate corrective action when necessary. The specialist performs incoming inspections on new medical equipment and systems to determine that all government safety regulations, manufacturer's specifications, contract requirements, and needs of the user are met. Contacts vendors and their representatives to obtain information on equipment and coordinate problem resolution. Monitors the quality of vendor service provided and ensures satisfactory and timely completion. Provides tactful instruction to equipment operators on the proper use of equipment to avoid use error recurrences; and documents appropriately; and instructs on operator level preventative maintenance. Provides biomedical equipment related technical training to peer and clinical staff.

AND demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

Knowledge of electronics and electricity including analog and intermediate digital electronics to test, calibrate, maintain, and repair biomedical equipment and moderately complex biomedical instrumentation systems.

Skill in the setup and use of standard and advanced level test equipment to perform precise and detailed analysis of the operating and design characteristics of equipment and initiate repairs, reconfiguration, or redesign of moderately complex medical systems.

Skill in applying theory, concepts, techniques, design characteristics, operation, and functions to assist and support installation, operation, test, maintenance, repair, design, and modification for a comprehensive range of medical equipment connected to networks or other operating systems.

Ability to evaluate practical and technical information from manufacturers, contract specifications, manuals, and historical data in order to perform analysis required to make effective recommendations concerning operation, maintenance, and repair of medical equipment.

Ability to perform testing and troubleshooting of medical devices involving their interfaces and connections to other medical devices, clinical systems, or information systems either directly or through the hospitals hardwired and wireless networks.

Ability to use application software and hardware as it relates to the operation and diagnostics of medical equipment.

Knowledge of computer equipment with a wide variety of software to input and retrieve data as required, and to prepare a variety of specific working documents and forms such as spreadsheet, database, word processing, and other similar products.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: providing support of medical equipment and systems; installing, maintaining, safety testing, calibrating, troubleshooting, and supporting medical technologies such as sleep lab monitoring systems, GI endoscopic systems, dental imaging equipment, surgical equipment, and clinical laboratory equipment; performing and documenting repairs and preventive maintenance activities and ensuring that the data is correctly entered into the medical equipment management computer system; utilizing schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, and technical manuals as guidelines for accomplishing work; maintaining inventory documentation of assigned networked-attached medical equipment/systems to include electronic protected health information (ePHI) requirements, Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN), IP addresses, Access Control Lists (ACL), anti-virus software, and other necessary information; and providing biomedical equipment related technical training to peer and clinical staff.

AND demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of a wide range of sciences including, but not limited to, electronics (analog and digital), computer science/networking, mechanical engineering design, pneumatics, hydraulics, chemistry, physiology, medical terminology, anatomy, optics, and biology to perform duties of a broad scope and nature on complex and sophisticated patient-related medical systems and sub-systems.

Ability to perform advanced testing and troubleshooting of medical devices involving their interfaces and connections to information systems either directly or through the hospitals hardwired and wireless networks.

Knowledge of codes and standards relevant to safe operation of medical instrumentation such as National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI).

Skill in the use of all types of test and calibration equipment such as digital multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, digital oscilloscopes, pulse generators, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers in performing troubleshooting/repair and preventive maintenance activities.

Ability to configure and maintain medical servers and desktop computers.

Knowledge of contracting regulations, requirements, and specific contract specifications including performance-based contracts.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Salary

Resume Must Support Response. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

RECOMMENDATION: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
CERTIFY: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731.) I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Do you certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙