Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12827884-26-MM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography), GS-6

Experience: At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

1. Knowledge of standard, computerized polysomnographs for recording continuous all night physiological data including EEG, EOG, EKG, EMG and respiratory parameters.
2. Knowledge of standard devices such as oximeters, respiratory effort devices, nasal pressure devices, thermistors, thermocouples, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machines, and laboratory computers including the ability to calibrate and operate the equipment and recognize and eliminate recording artifacts.
3. Knowledge of medical terminology and medical record organization to review medical records, sleep study orders, consent forms, medical charts, etc.
4. Knowledge of polysomnographic procedural protocols (including overnight sleep studies, MSLT, MWT, PAP, etc.).
5. Knowledge of basic anatomy and physiology and the international 10-20 electrode placement system in order to conduct the sleep studies.

Do you possess the Experience and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography), GS-7

Experience: At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided the individual with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to independently conduct difficult but standardized polysomnography examinations. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

1. Knowledge of CPAP function and operation to select and fit appropriate PAP patient interface devices.
2. Ability to independently titrate and document PAP level to achieve therapeutic goals.
3. Knowledge of indications, complications, and contraindications of CPAP therapy.
4. Knowledge of Bi-Level pressure titrations.
5. Ability to recognize changes seen during the PSG tracing and identify all stages of sleep. This includes the ability to score and analyze sleep stages in clinical polysomnography recordings.

Do you possess the Experience and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Required Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography), GS-8

Experience: At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided a knowledge of the more complex procedures as well as knowledge of the uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

1. Advanced knowledge or the International Classification of Sleep Disorders and the ability to recognize uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders.
2. Ability to summarize and report polysomnographic data in narrative form.
3. Knowledge of event characteristics (e.g., respiratory, cardiac, sleep stage, seizures, etc.) and ability to take appropriate action.
4. Ability to provide briefings and orientation to hospital staff including physicians.

Do you possess the Experience and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above?
 Yes
 No


Federal Employees, SF-50 reminder to submit with your application. This only applies if you are a Federal Employee.

SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (if applicable for Time in Grade and/or Eligibility):
Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee
An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade
Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


Federal Resume Reminder: Please ensure that your resume is in the Federal Format or that it includes all required information. 

Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title, Duties (be as detailed as possible), Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008), Full-time or part-time status (including the number of weekly hours worked per week for each position listed on the resume).

Link to Federal Resume Requirements: https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include

What should I include in my resume?

Whether you're a current federal employee or new to the federal government, your resume is the primary way for you to communicate your education, skills and experience. The federal government does not have a standard job application. Your resume is your application.
 

A resume for a federal job is different than one for the private sector.
 

You must address each of the requirements and qualifications listed in the announcement-write clearly and without jargon. The hiring agency will not make assumptions about what's in your resume.
It requires more detailed descriptions of your work experiences, including experience level and complexity of work and may exceed the private sectors commonly recommended one to two pages.
You must include the start and end dates (month/year) and number of hours worked per week for each work experience.
You should tailor your resume for each federal job you apply for instead of using the same resume.

Before you write your resume

Read the entire job announcement. Focus on the following sections to understand whether you qualify for the position. This critical information is found under:
 

Duties
Requirements, which lists the Qualifications, and Specialized Experience and Education
How to Apply which will include a link to a preview of an assessment questionnaire, if that is required
How You Will be Evaluated
 

Make sure you have the required experience and education before you apply. Hiring agencies use the job announcement to describe the job and the required qualifications, including:

Level and amount of experience
Education
Training

What to include in your resume

Federal jobs often require that you have experience in a particular type of work for a certain amount of time. Your resume must show how your skills and experiences meet the qualifications and requirements listed in the job announcement to be considered for the job.

Include important contact information at the top
Full name
Your address
Your email address
Your phone number

Read the job opportunity carefully to make sure you have included all required contact information.

Include dates, number of hours worked per week, level of experience and examples for each work experience
 

For each work experience, make sure you include:

Job title
Start and end dates (including the month and year).
The number of hours you worked per week.
The level of experience-describe the level of responsibility you had, for instance, whether you served as a project manager or a team member helps to illustrate your level of experience.
The amount of experience-use numbers to illustrate the number of people you managed, or the number of years you worked or managed.
Examples of relevant experience and accomplishments. Write your experience by matching your work experiences and accomplishments with language in the job announcement. Your experience needs to address every required qualification and prove that you can perform the tasks at the level required as stated in the job announcement.


Example of work experience (Federal Employment - Please provide grade levels for Federal employment positions)
 

Program Analyst GS-343-11, January 2009 - Present  40 Hours/Week   $63,000/Year

Describe your experience.
List an accomplishment. For example: "Accomplished  as measured by [Y], by doing [Z]."
Describe your experience.
List an accomplishment. For example: "Accomplished  as measured by [Y], by doing [Z]."




5.
CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙