Position Title
Supervisory Review Appraiser
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12854021-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


6.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Review Appraiser position with the Army Corps of Engineers. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Review Appraiser at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Resolving appraisal issues that are unusual or unique to ensure effective program execution; AND 2) Reviewing work completed by appraisers including cost estimates or feasibility studies to ensure accuracy; AND 3) Developing policies and procedures for real estate appraisal programs to improve operational efficiency.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
As the Supervisory Review Appraiser for the Border Infrastructure Program, you receive a request from HQUSACE to provide comprehensive support for implementing new valuation standards across all districts nationwide. Three districts have expressed concerns about resource constraints, two districts need technical guidance on complex border property valuations, and one district requires policy clarification on HTRW contaminated properties. How do you prioritize and structure your support approach?

 Immediately convene a national conference call with all district chiefs to discuss implementation challenges, then create standardized guidance documents and establish regional support teams to provide ongoing technical assistance.
 Delegate the technical guidance responsibilities to senior appraisers in each region while personally focusing on developing policy documents and coordinating with HQUSACE on resource allocation matters.
 Develop a phased implementation plan that addresses policy clarification first, followed by targeted technical assistance for complex valuations, while simultaneously coordinating with HQUSACE to address resource allocation concerns through a comprehensive needs assessment.
 Require all districts to implement the new standards immediately using existing resources, providing support only to those districts that submit formal written requests with detailed justifications for assistance.
 Focus primarily on the districts with the most complex technical challenges first, then address policy issues, while recommending that resource-constrained districts request additional funding through normal channels.


2.
You receive an appraisal for a 500-acre military installation border property that includes active munitions storage, HTRW contamination, and overlapping easement rights with three different federal agencies. The appraiser used a modified cost approach but excluded contamination impacts, citing insufficient data. The appraisal is needed for a high-profile condemnation case with significant political attention. What is your review approach?

 Reject the appraisal entirely and reassign it to a different appraiser with more experience in military properties, regardless of project timeline constraints or the original appraiser's qualifications.
 Conduct a comprehensive technical review focusing on the appropriateness of the cost approach methodology, require additional analysis of contamination impacts using available environmental data, and verify proper treatment of the complex easement rights before approving or requesting revisions.
 Accept the cost approach methodology but require the appraiser to include a detailed discussion of contamination impacts in the limiting conditions, and verify that all easement rights are properly disclosed in the report.
 Request the appraiser provide additional market data to support a sales comparison approach as the primary methodology, while requiring a supplemental analysis addressing contamination impacts and easement complications.
 Approve the appraisal as submitted since contamination data is often incomplete for military properties, but add a supervisory note explaining the limitations and potential impact on value conclusions.


3.
During a routine compliance audit, you discover that several appraisals completed over the past six months for Border Infrastructure acquisitions contain inconsistent applications of USPAP Standards 1 and 2, and some lack required certifications under the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions. The Department of Justice has already received three of these appraisals for pending litigation. How do you address this compliance issue?

 Focus on correcting the three appraisals already submitted to DOJ through supplemental reports, then gradually address remaining compliance issues while implementing additional supervisory review requirements for future appraisals.
 Continue processing current appraisals while gradually addressing compliance issues through normal supervisory channels, since most compliance problems can be resolved through minor report modifications without affecting value conclusions.
 Document the compliance issues in personnel files, require the responsible appraisers to complete additional training, and implement a temporary policy requiring dual review of all appraisals until compliance improves.
 Immediately halt distribution of non-compliant appraisals, conduct a comprehensive review of all recent work, notify DOJ of potential issues with submitted appraisals, and implement corrective training while developing enhanced quality control procedures.
 Review all questionable appraisals to determine the severity of compliance issues, prioritize corrections based on litigation schedules, and establish mandatory refresher training on federal appraisal standards for all staff and contract appraisers.


4.
HQUSACE has tasked you with developing a comprehensive plan for implementing standardized valuation management controls across all divisions supporting the Border Infrastructure Program. You must address quality assurance protocols, appraiser certification requirements, review procedures, and performance metrics while ensuring consistency with existing USACE regulations and USPAP requirements. What is your planning approach?

 Create comprehensive written procedures based on best practices from the most successful division, distribute to all divisions with implementation deadlines, and establish annual compliance audits to ensure adherence.
 Adapt existing USACE appraisal management procedures to Border Infrastructure requirements, develop standardized checklists and forms, and implement phased rollout with mandatory training for all supervisory personnel.
 Require all divisions to immediately adopt identical procedures regardless of current practices or regional differences, with compliance monitored through existing USACE reporting systems and no additional training resources.
 Conduct a thorough analysis of current divisional practices, develop standardized procedures that accommodate regional variations while maintaining core consistency, create implementation timelines with pilot testing, and establish measurable performance metrics with regular monitoring protocols.
 Form a working group with representatives from each division to develop consensus-based standards, create detailed implementation guidance with training components, and establish quarterly review cycles to monitor compliance and effectiveness.


5.
You are directing appraisal activities for a critical Border Infrastructure acquisition involving 15 separate parcels across three states, with a compressed timeline due to national security priorities. Two districts report appraiser shortages, one district has identified significant HTRW contamination requiring specialized expertise, and DOJ needs preliminary values within 30 days for emergency condemnation proceedings. How do you direct the overall appraisal effort?

 Immediately assess available resources across all districts, reallocate specialized appraisers to priority parcels, coordinate with contract appraiser networks for additional capacity, and establish a centralized project management approach with daily progress monitoring.
 Direct each district to handle their assigned parcels independently using available resources, provide technical guidance as requested, and coordinate final value submissions to ensure consistency across all properties.
 Prioritize parcels based on acquisition urgency and complexity, deploy your most experienced appraisers to contaminated properties, utilize contract appraisers for standard parcels, and implement accelerated review procedures to meet DOJ deadlines.
 Focus internal resources on the most complex contaminated parcels while contracting out standard residential and commercial properties, establish weekly coordination calls with all districts, and provide preliminary value estimates based on available data.
 Require all districts to complete their assigned appraisals using only internal staff regardless of capacity constraints, since contract appraisers may not understand the unique requirements of Border Infrastructure properties.


6.
You encounter a unique Border Infrastructure property that includes active border patrol facilities, underground tunnel detection systems, and restricted airspace rights, with no comparable sales data available. Traditional appraisal approaches are inadequate due to the specialized nature and security classifications of the improvements. The property is needed for expansion of border security operations. What innovative procedure do you develop?

 Establish a modified income approach based on the economic benefit of border security operations, combined with cost analysis of similar government facilities, while documenting the unique nature of the property in detailed limiting conditions.
 Request that the property be appraised using standard residential or commercial approaches with adjustments for government ownership, since all properties can be valued using traditional methods regardless of their specialized nature.
 Develop a hybrid valuation methodology combining cost approach for specialized improvements, income approach based on government lease rates for similar security facilities, and land value analysis using comparable border properties, with appropriate adjustments for unique characteristics.
 Utilize a pure cost approach based on government construction costs for all improvements, with land value determined through analysis of comparable border properties, and include extensive narrative explaining the unique valuation challenges.
 Create a specialized cost approach utilizing government construction databases for security facilities, supplemented by depreciated replacement cost analysis for tunnel detection systems, and market analysis of comparable government properties with security restrictions.


7.
You are directing the preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study for a proposed Border Infrastructure project involving acquisition of 200 properties across 50 miles of border territory. The study must include preliminary cost estimates, environmental impact assessments, community economic impact analysis, and alternative site evaluations. Multiple disciplines are involved, and the study will influence Congressional funding decisions. How do you direct this complex preparation effort?

 Direct appraisers to complete property valuations independently while other specialists handle their respective components, with integration of all elements occurring only during final report compilation to avoid conflicts between disciplines.
 Direct appraisers to focus on property valuation and cost estimates while coordinating with environmental and economic specialists as needed, establish milestone reviews to monitor progress, and ensure all components are integrated in the final feasibility report.
 Establish integrated project teams with clear roles for appraisers, environmental specialists, and economists, create standardized methodologies for cost estimation and impact analysis, implement quality control checkpoints, and ensure coordination between all disciplines throughout the process.
 Assign specific geographic sections to different appraiser teams, require coordination with other disciplines through formal written requests, and establish final review procedures to ensure all study components meet federal requirements.
 Assign lead appraisers to coordinate with other disciplines, develop comprehensive work plans with defined deliverables and timelines, establish regular progress reviews, and create standardized reporting formats to ensure consistency across all study components.


8.
You are tasked with developing comprehensive policy for the national Border Infrastructure appraisal program that must address quality standards, appraiser qualifications, review procedures, technology integration, and coordination with other federal agencies. The policy must be implementable across all USACE divisions while maintaining flexibility for regional variations. What is your policy development approach?

 Form policy development committees with representatives from each division, analyze current practices and identify best practices, create standardized procedures with built-in flexibility for regional adaptation, and develop comprehensive training and implementation support.
 Conduct comprehensive stakeholder analysis including field appraisers, district management, and partner agencies, develop tiered policy framework with core requirements and optional enhancements, create implementation guidance with training components, and establish feedback mechanisms for continuous improvement.
 Survey current divisional practices to identify common approaches, develop policy based on majority practices with modifications for Border Infrastructure requirements, and create implementation guidance with mandatory training components.
 Review existing USACE appraisal policies and federal requirements, adapt successful practices from other programs, create detailed policy documents with clear implementation timelines, and establish monitoring procedures to ensure compliance.
 Adopt existing federal appraisal policies without modification since they already meet legal requirements, distribute to all divisions with immediate implementation deadlines, and rely on existing USACE oversight mechanisms for compliance monitoring.


9.
The Division Commander requests your advice regarding a controversial Border Infrastructure appraisal that resulted in a $50 million valuation for a property the local community believes is worth $20 million. Media attention is intense, Congressional inquiries have begun, and DOJ needs to proceed with condemnation. The appraisal methodology is sound, but public perception is damaging the program's reputation. How do you advise senior management?

 Defend the technical accuracy of the appraisal while acknowledging public concerns, recommend proceeding with condemnation as planned, and suggest that public affairs handle all external communication about the valuation.
 Provide detailed technical explanation of the appraisal methodology and supporting data, recommend obtaining an independent review appraisal for validation, and suggest coordinated public communication emphasizing the legal requirements for fair market value.
 Present a comprehensive briefing explaining the technical basis for the valuation, discuss the difference between market value and public perception, recommend a communication strategy that emphasizes adherence to federal standards, and suggest proactive engagement with stakeholders to explain the appraisal process.
 Recommend reducing the appraised value to align with community expectations to avoid further controversy, since public support is essential for program success regardless of technical appraisal requirements.
 Explain the appraisal methodology and federal requirements that support the valuation, recommend preparation of simplified explanatory materials for public distribution, and suggest coordination with public affairs to address media concerns.


10.
After analyzing program performance data, you identify that current appraisal review procedures are creating 45-day delays in project timelines, while quality metrics show no improvement over streamlined processes used in other programs. Senior management is concerned about meeting Congressional deadlines for Border Infrastructure acquisitions. What recommendations do you present?

 Recommend eliminating most review procedures to meet timeline requirements, since speed is more important than extensive quality control when Congressional deadlines are involved and appraisers are already professionally certified.
 Present performance data showing current delays and their impact on project schedules, recommend specific procedural modifications to reduce review time, and suggest implementation with enhanced quality control measures to maintain standards.
 Document current inefficiencies and their impact on program objectives, recommend adopting proven procedures from other USACE programs, and propose immediate implementation with monitoring to ensure quality is maintained.
 Provide comprehensive analysis of current bottlenecks and delays, recommend adopting streamlined procedures from successful programs with appropriate modifications, and propose implementation timeline with training requirements and quality assurance measures.
 Present data-driven analysis comparing current procedures with alternative approaches, recommend implementing risk-based review procedures that maintain quality while reducing timeline, propose pilot testing with specific metrics, and suggest phased implementation with performance monitoring.


11.
You are participating in a multi-agency coordination meeting with DOJ, DHS, and local officials regarding a complex Border Infrastructure acquisition. DOJ is concerned about appraisal defensibility for litigation, DHS needs accelerated timelines for security reasons, and local officials are questioning the valuation methodology. Each agency has different priorities and technical understanding levels. How do you contribute to the discussion?

 Explain appraisal methodology and federal requirements clearly, address each agency's specific concerns with technical details, propose realistic timelines that consider all constraints, and offer to provide additional technical support as needed.
 Present clear explanations tailored to each agency's concerns and technical background, propose solutions that address multiple agency needs while maintaining appraisal standards, facilitate discussion of realistic timelines, and establish follow-up communication protocols for ongoing coordination.
 Insist that all agencies must accommodate standard appraisal procedures and timelines since federal regulations cannot be modified, and refer all specific concerns to written technical guidance documents.
 Provide technical explanations appropriate for each audience, address specific concerns raised by each agency, propose compromise solutions that balance competing priorities, and suggest regular coordination meetings to monitor progress and resolve issues.
 Focus primarily on explaining technical appraisal requirements and standards, respond to specific questions from each agency, and emphasize the importance of maintaining quality standards regardless of timeline pressures.


12.
A promising junior appraiser in the Border Infrastructure program is struggling with complex contaminated property valuations and has made several methodological errors in recent appraisals. The appraiser is technically competent in standard valuations but lacks confidence in specialized areas. Other team members have noticed the struggles, and the appraiser's confidence is declining. How do you approach this mentoring situation?

 Arrange for formal training in contaminated property valuation, temporarily reassign the appraiser to standard properties until skills improve, and provide written guidance on proper methodologies for future reference.
 Meet individually to assess learning needs and provide targeted technical guidance, assign the appraiser to work closely with experienced specialists on contaminated properties, arrange for specialized training opportunities, and provide regular feedback and encouragement.
 Reassign all contaminated property work to more experienced appraisers until the junior appraiser gains more general experience, since specialized valuations require extensive experience that cannot be quickly developed through mentoring.
 Conduct private discussions to understand specific challenges and knowledge gaps, develop a structured learning plan with progressively complex assignments, provide hands-on guidance during actual appraisals, and create opportunities for specialized training while building confidence through recognition of strengths.
 Provide additional technical resources and reference materials for contaminated property valuation, assign less complex contaminated properties for practice, increase supervisory review of work, and offer encouragement while monitoring progress.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙