Position Title
PHARMACY TECHNICIAN - STERILE COMPOUND IV PRODUCT (ONCOLOGY) (CLOSE TO ME)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12975932-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - The basic requirements for employment as a Pharmacy Technician within the VHA are prescribed by the Pharmacy Technician-Qualification Standard-GS-0661. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - Pharmacy technicians employed in VHA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Pharmacy Technician-Qualification Standard-GS-0661 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Pharmacy Technician candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).
 Yes
 No


2.
Citizenship Requirement: Do you meet the citizenship requirement for this position by being a citizen of the United States, or do you wish to be considered under the non-citizen appointment provision of 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a)?
 Yes, I am a U.S. citizen.
 No, but I wish to be considered under 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).


3.
Education or Experience: From the description below, select the option that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for the GS-8 Pharmacy Technician position.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7) in the federal service, which has equipped me with the comprehensive knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of a GS-8 Pharmacy Technician, AND I hold an active national certification (CPhT through PTCB or ExCPT through NHA).
 I meet the minimum qualifications based on combination of qualifying specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-7 level) and directly related graduate-level education. (To calculate this, determine you total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the GS-8 grade level; then determine your education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level. Add the two percentages together. The combined percentages together. The combined percentage must equal at least 100%). I also hold an active national certification (CPhT or ExCPT).
 I have the required national certification (CPhT or ExCPT) but do not possess the required specialized experience or combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-8 level.
 I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements or certification requirements for this position.


4.
Certification: For positions above the full performance level (such as GS-8), candidates must possess an active national certification. Do you hold an active national certification as a Pharmacy Technician through one of the approved credentialing bodies listed below?
 Yes, I have passed a national certification exam and hold an active national certification as a Certified Pharmacy Technician (CPhT) through the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board (PTCB).
 Yes, I have passed a national certification exam and hold an active national certification as a Certified Pharmacy Technician (ExCPT) through the National Healthcareer Association (NHA).
 No, I do not currently hold an active national certification from either the PTCB or the NHA.


5.
Pharmacy Technician, GS-08. Candidates for the Pharmacy Technician, GS-08 position must meet comprehensive qualification, assignment, and Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) requirements. Specifically, you must possess:

1. Experience: At least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07).
2. Certification: An active national certification through either the PTCB as a CPhT OR the NHA as an ExCPT.
3. Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Comprehensive knowledge of concepts, principles, methodology, and policies in a specialized area or section of pharmacy (such as sterile compounding, controlled substances, automation, clinical pharmacy, contact center, etc.).
Skill in training and orienting new and existing pharmacy facility employees and students on proper policies and procedures.
 Ability to evaluate, analyze, and coordinate workflow and work activities within a specialized area or section of the pharmacy.
Assignments: Experience where higher-level duties consist of significant scope, complexity, and range of variety, performed at least 25% of the time. This includes serving as a subject matter expert and key resource in the day-to-day technician duties of a specialized area (such as sterile compounding, oncology, controlled substances, medication history review, clinical specialist [anticoagulation, pain, infectious diseases], clinical informatics, automation, immunizations, or other specialized area), performing assignments such as compounding sterile products, filling controlled substance prescriptions while maintaining compliance with Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) regulations, taking medication histories and counseling patients, managing automation, managing workflow, and training/orienting staff.

From the descriptions below, select the option that best describes your qualifications for this position:

 Yes. I meet all of the experience, national certification, KSA, and 25% higher-level specialized assignment requirements detailed in the question above.
 I possess the required one (1) year of GS-07 equivalent experience and national certification, but I do not meet the 25% higher-level assignment threshold or all of the specific KSAs outlined above.
 I possess an active national certification (PTCB or NHA), but I do not have one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level.
 I do not currently hold an active national certification through the PTCB (CPhT) or NHA (ExCPT).
 I do not meet any of the criteria described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Certification of Understanding: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙