Position Title
Physical Therapist (Clinical Specialist) - Wound Care Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12961234-26-KMS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Physical Therapists must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f). Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education and/or Experience. The VHA Physical Therapist (Clinical Specialist) must meet at least one of the requirements below:
(1) Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
(2) Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
(3) Doctorate degree in Physical Therapy.

NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) accredited college or university. The CAPTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation to accredit entry-level physical therapy programs.

Foreign Graduates. Graduates of foreign physical therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a full unrestricted and current license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. Although the licensing of physical therapists in the United States is a right and responsibility of each jurisdiction, foreign educated individuals must undergo an educational credentials assessment for substantial equivalency to the first professional degree in the United States.

Please select the appropriate statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess to qualify for this position. You must provide a copy of your transcripts that reflect the degree awarded and conferred date. Your resume MUST demonstrate the experience required of the position.
 I possess a bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy and have five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 I possess a master's degree in Physical Therapy and have two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 I possess a doctorate degree in Physical Therapy.
 I am a graduate of a foreign physical therapy program and I possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 I do not possess the education and/or experience required to qualify for the position.


3.
Licensure. Individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your current licensure status that qualifies you for this position. You must provide a copy of your state license with your application.

 I currently possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 I do not possess the licensure required to qualify for this position.


Specialized Experience. In addition to the basic qualification requirements, you must meet the education and/or experience criteria below and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) required of the position. Your resume MUST demonstrate the experience required of the position.


4.
GS-13 Grade Requirements. To qualify at the GS-13 grade level, the following experience must be demonstrated on your resume. Examples of creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Serves as the subject matter expert in the content specialty area and as a consultant to physical therapists and other medical center staff in evaluating and treating patients in the specialty area. Demonstrates expert clinical practice skills in providing assessment and treatment interventions across the continuum of care. Utilizes advanced knowledge and expertise to modify treatment plans and to identify therapeutic activity interventions based on the changing needs, goals and performance of patients. Establishes and maintains contact with other health care providers involved in patient care via written, telephone, and personal communication on a regular basis. Exercises expert professional judgment to establish appropriate discharge planning recommendations to ensure safe discharge from inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation programs.

In addition to meeting the basic requirements, one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level and one of the following:
(a) Evidence of a minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the specialty area. This time must be between the past 2 to 5 years; or
(b) Board Certification in the specialty area recognized by the ABPTS; or
(c) Completion of a fellowship program; or
(d) An additional advanced degree in a related field.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: Advanced knowledge and expert skill in a range of specialized interventions and treatment modalities used in a specialized treatment area of physical therapy; ability to serve as a consultant and subject matter expert for health care providers regarding the delivery of care within a specialized content area of physical therapy; ability to teach and mentor medical center staff in a specialized content area of physical therapy; ability to guide the work of a multi-disciplinary team in a specialized content area of physical therapy; advanced knowledge and expert skill to perform and interpret specialized procedures and tests in evaluating the treatment outcomes in the assigned specialty content area.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience or education that qualifies you for the GS-13 grade level.
 I possess a minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the specialty area. This time is within the past 2 to 5 years and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I possess Board Certification in the specialty area recognized by the ABPTS and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I have completed a fellowship program and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I possess an additional advanced degree in a related field and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I do not possess the experience or education.


5.
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
advanced knowledge and expert skill in a range of specialized interventions and treatment modalities used in a specialized treatment area of physical therapy;
ability to serve as a consultant and subject matter expert for health care providers regarding the delivery of care within a specialized content area of physical therapy;
ability to teach and mentor medical center staff in a specialized content area of physical therapy;
ability to guide the work of a multi-disciplinary team in a specialized content area of physical therapy;
advanced knowledge and expert skill to perform and interpret specialized procedures and tests in evaluating the treatment outcomes in the assigned specialty content area.
 I possess the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities and they are demonstrated on my resume.
 I do not possess the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.


Resume Reminder. Your resume must include all of the following information for each job listed: Job title, description of duties you performed (be as detailed as possible), month and year for start/end dates of employment (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008), and full-time/part-time status including average hours worked per week. In describing your experience, please be clear and specific so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. We cannot make assumptions regarding your experience and qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙