Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography Sleep Lab Coordinator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12926286-26-ALD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for applying to the Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography Sleep Lab Coordinator) position with the VHA.  Please answer the following questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, of this part. See 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a) for more information.

Are you a citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Do you meet the education requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure. People appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Credential. People appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Are you licensed?
 Yes
 No


4.
English Language Proficiency. RTs/RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in the required language?
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS. All individuals assigned to this occupation must meet all the basic qualification requirements above in paragraph 4 a-g and all basic qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment. All positions must be designated in one of the approved titles or parenthetical title, as described below and duties must meet the definition of the assignment:

GRADE DETERMINATIONS.

Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment in paragraph 3 above, all individuals referred and assigned to this occupation must meet all the qualification requirements and KSAs defined in the specific assignment as follows:




Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-12 (Polysomnography).

Experience:  
Licensure Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
Hold an active license and RRT credential. 
Candidates must hold a RPSGT certification.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Skill in performing polysomnographic studies to include obtaining both physiologic and diagnostic data.
Skill in calibrating and troubleshooting polysomnographic equipment.
Skill in monitoring both physiologic and diagnostic parameters.
Skill in scoring data both during and post diagnostic testing.
Skill in analyzing data both during and post diagnostic testing.
Skill in preparing output for physician interpretation of data obtained both during and post diagnostic testing.
Skill in the assessment of oxygenation, ventilation and adverse responses.
Assignment. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity and range of variety and must be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. RRTs at this grade level in this position perform polysomnographic testing and titration studies including activities such as applying electrodes and various monitors to multiple body sites per protocol. They evaluate the relationship of events, sleep stages and possible medical conditions which influence or result from events occurring during sleep. They anticipate problems likely to occur during the sleep study, prepares for such situations and makes changes in established procedures. They obtain data measuring wake, sleep and breathing states and records various signals from the brain and airways, cardiac rate, oxygen saturation and position to enable the physician to assess and diagnose sleep and breathing disorders. RRTs troubleshoot and calibrate polysomnography, computer, oximeters, movement monitors and patient electrodes prior to the onset of each recording. They analyze and score patient data and summarize on report for physician interpretation. They monitor and initiate interventions for complications of testing and determines whether patient meets criteria for termination of testing. They perform electroencephalogram and home sleep testing and evaluate results.

Do you meet the requirement for the GS-12?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙