Position Title
Facility and Maintenance Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12930831 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Facility and Maintenance Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience in a supervisory role?
 I have managed the full life cycle of employee supervision for a diverse team, including making staffing and hiring recommendations, conducting formal performance appraisals, developing and implementing training plans, and taking corrective or disciplinary action when required.
 I have been directly responsible for a team of employees, which included assigning work based on their capabilities, conducting formal performance reviews, and ensuring they received the necessary job training.
 I have assigned daily tasks and priorities to a team and have provided input to a manager for annual performance reviews.
 I have acted as a team leader, guiding coworkers and assisting with training, but I have not had responsibility for formal performance reviews or disciplinary actions.


2.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience in facility management?

 I have managed the full scope of facility and maintenance operations for multiple buildings or outdoor areas. This included overseeing all maintenance and repairs, developing project plans for renovations and minor construction, reviewing blueprints, and serving as the primary point of contact with external contractors and headquarters elements on all construction and maintenance matters.
 I have directly overseen the maintenance and repair of fitness facilities and equipment, managed service requests, and made recommendations for the acquisition of new equipment and supplies to ensure compliance with operational and safety standards.
 I have been responsible for the day-to-day operations of a facility, which included conducting regular inspections, logging and scheduling equipment repairs, and overseeing janitorial services to ensure a clean and safe environment.
 I have performed routine cleaning and basic maintenance tasks in a facility and have reported broken equipment or safety issues to my supervisor.


3.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience with Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) and Appropriated Fund (APF) financial management and procurement procedures within a government or military environment?

 I have been responsible for preparing comprehensive financial plans for a program, managing NAF funds, and using government procurement procedures to handle contract and bid proposals for facility projects.
 I have experience monitoring an existing NAF operating budget, procuring supplies and equipment within established spending limits, and preparing daily financial reports
 I have a basic understanding of budgeting principles and have made small-scale purchases for supplies using a government credit card.
 I have no direct experience managing NAF budgets but am familiar with general accounting practices from the private sector.


4.
Do you have a valid state driver's license?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙