Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Rating)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
317-26-DDD-13045332-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Saint Petersburg, FL
 B. Atlanta, GA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
10
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describes your experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees and CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a currently a permanent employee of the VBA or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. Your responses will be subject to verification. You must provide SF-50s to prove time in grade. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks' time in-grade. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your most recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit an SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time in-grade.


2.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-7 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-9 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-7 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-7 level.


3.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-9 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-10 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-9 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-9 level.


4.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-10 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-11 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-10 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-10 level.


5.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-11 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-12 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-11 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-11 level.


Specialized Experience: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and, abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.


6.
From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for the Veteran Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-09 level.
 I have at least had one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service that includes the following: Gathering or requesting evidence to respond to claimant inquiries for federal, state, or local benefits in areas such as but not limited to: burial benefits, education benefits, monetary benefits, welfare benefits, housing benefits and various other federal, state, or local programs.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., and my education is directly related to the position. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I do not have at least one full year of specialized experience (as described in A, above) or two full years (36 semester credits or 54 quarter hours) of graduate level education (as described in B, above). However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements required to qualify for this position.


7.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for the Veteran Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-10 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service that includes the following: assisting claimants with applications for federal, state, or local benefits in areas such as but not limited to: burial benefits, education benefits, monetary benefits, welfare benefits, housing benefits and various other federal, state, or local programs; AND identifying errors, inconsistencies, or omissions in federal or state-administered benefits request package.
 I possess two and a half years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I do not have at least one full year of specialized experience (as described in A, above) or two and a half years (45 semester credits hours) of graduate level education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (as described in B, above). However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


8.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the Veterans Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-11 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 level in the Federal service that includes the following: Explaining federal or state-administered benefits decisions to claimants to help them gain an understanding of claim determinations AND evaluating evidence and allegations to draw sound conclusions regarding benefit claims.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. (You must provide supporting transcripts).
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


9.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the Veterans Service Representative (Rating) position at the GS-12 level.
 Yes, I have have at least one year of full-time specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that includes determining the eligibility for federal, state, or local administered benefits, such as: disability, education, housing, medical and/or veterans' benefits; and Applying federal or state laws to process claims pertaining to an unemployment, disability or benefit program.
 No, I do not have the experience required for this position at the GS-12


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙