Position Title
Physical Therapist Clinical Specialist (Lymphedema)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12924075-26-YAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Physical Therapist, Clinical Specialist (Lymphedema) position with the VHA. Please respond to each question by selecting YES or NO. NOTE: Your responses are subject to verification using your resume and the documents you submit. Please review all responses for accuracy and submit applicable transcripts, licenses, and / or certification before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: Physical Therapists appointed to direct patient care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d). Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure: Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


4.
Education and Experience. You must be a graduate of a Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) accredited college or university.
In addition, to qualify as a Physical Therapist, Clinical Specialist (Lymphedema) at the GS-13 level: Do you have successful completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and one of the following:
A.  A minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area. This time must be within the past five years; ~ OR ~
B.  Certification in an area recognized by the APTA; ~ OR ~
C.  Completion of a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area; ~ OR ~ An additional advanced degree in a related field.
 Yes
 No


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, your resume must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, Abilities (KSAs): 

A. Knowledge of contemporary Physical therapy across multiple areas of practice,
B. Ability to provide clinical guidance in the advanced practice area to other PT practitioners.
C. Knowledge of advanced specialized evaluation, interventions and services to independently develop treatment strategies for area of specialization.
D. Skill in developing protocols and procedures for intervention programs based on current Physical therapy theory, recent research and practice.
E. Ability to provide consultation to other health care practitioners and outside groups about Physical therapy scope of practice for area of specialization.
F. Ability to implement, revise/update evidence based Physical therapy services and programming in area of specialization.
G. Ability to implement, revise/update evidence-based lymphedema physical therapy treatments and collaborate with others
H. Advanced knowledge in prosthetics/lymphedema garments and demonstrates ability to adjust devices, garments, or adaptive equipment to obtain maximum benefit.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙