Position Title
Supervisory Financial Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12995466 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-15 you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

- Planning and conducting financial research and analysis used by senior officials/executives to help develop policies or strategies regarding international investment issues; AND
- Developing recommendations for senior officials/executives regarding the various legal, financial, national security or policy implications of particular financial transactions; AND
- Developing policy/strategy legal recommendations for senior officials/executives regarding corporate merger and acquisition or other corporate transactional and governance documents.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Specialized Experience for the GS-14 you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

- Planning and conducting financial research and analysis used by senior officials/executives to help develop policies or strategies regarding international investment issues; AND
- Developing recommendations for senior officials/executives regarding the various legal, financial, national security or policy implications of particular financial transactions.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


2a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙