Position Title
Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12994889-26-NS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted about missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


Individuals appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74 to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA must be proficient in written and spoken English.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Medical Dosimetrists must be proficient in spoken and written English.  Are you proficient in spoken and written english?
 Yes
 No


The following question pertains to the education requirements for this position. The individual must meet the following requirements below: Education. Effective January 1, 2017, candidates are required to hold a minimum of a bachelor's degree and graduate from a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months in duration. The medical dosimetry program must be accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. JRCERT is the accrediting agency for the medical dosimetry programs recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Exception. Candidates who graduated prior to January 1, 2017, are considered to have met the basic education requirement provided they meet all Medical Dosimetrist Certification Board (MDCB) requirements and are in good standing. Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Foreign equivalency evaluation from The Foundation for International Services, Inc. or the International Education Research Foundation is required. Foreign equivalency documentation from any other organization will not be considered.


2.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your education and/or experience that qualifies you for this position. You must provide a copy of your transcripts showing the degree earned and completion/confer date.
 I possess a Bachelor's degree & graduated from a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months in duration.
 I graduated before January 1, 2017, have met the basic education requirements, have met all Medical Dosimetrist Certification Board (MDCB) requirements and in good standing.
 I possess a qualified Foreign Education.
 I meet grandfathering provisions to meet all education requirements.
 I do not possess the education required to qualify for this position.


All applicants must be certified in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology.


GS-12 Certification. Individuals assigned to a dosimetrist position at this level, Certification in Medical Dosimetry (CMD) is required.


3.
Certification. All applicants must be certified in medical dosimetry by the MDCB. Certified Medical Dosimetry (CMD) is the recognized credential for Medical Dosimetrists. Do you possess the required Certification for the GS-12 Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist)?

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your current certification status that qualifies you for this position. Your certification must be provided as a supporting document if you are certified.
 Yes, I do possess the Medical Dosimetry (CMD) Certification.
 I do not possess Medical Dosimetry (CMD) Certification.


Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist), GS-12. Candidates must have the following: Experience. At this level, candidates must possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level and must fully meet the KSAs. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. Candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of the care and use of radioactive resources for implementation and treatment delivery.
(b) Skill at effective communication and leadership as demonstrated by providing orientation and training for staff, providing input for yearly appraisals, directing progress and coordination of workload, and ensuring compliance with standard operating procedures and directives to provide continuity of care. 
(c) Skill in providing guidance and expertise related to all aspects of the treatment planning process.
(d) Skill to independently perform complex treatment procedures as evidenced by completing tasks such as developing and troubleshooting highly complex isodose treatment plans delineating critical structures and tumor volumes, performing weekly chart checks, performing QA verifications and providing training on all aspects of the Record and Verify System such as Mosaiq or Aria.
(e) Ability to resolve complex physical and geometric errors in radiation equipment, simulation procedures and treatment delivery implementation.
(f) Ability to follow protocols including, but not limited to developing and implementing policies and standard operating procedures, participating in research programs, ensuring compliance with the radiation safety office, national program office, and accrediting agencies, and following established quality standard measures.
(g) Ability to apply a broad range of specific methods of radiation measurements including, but not limited to, diode, ion chamber, thermoluminescent dosimeter, or film measurement as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist and perform or assist with the QA procedures as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist.


4.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the GS-12
 I possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Effective January 1, 2017, candidates are required to hold a minimum of a bachelor's degree and graduate from a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months in duration. The medical dosimetry program must be accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. JRCERT is the accrediting agency for the medical dosimetry programs recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙