Position Title
Security Officer
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA-26-12933228-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


11.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


12.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Alexandria, VA


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Top Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A pre-employment and recurring comprehensive background investigation that includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Top Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has been identified for the Security Professional Education Development (SPeD) Certification Program. This position requires the incumbent obtain the following core SPeD Certification: Security Fundamentals Professional Certification (SFPC) within their first two years of employment. Do you have, or are you willing to obtain and maintain the required SPeD Certification?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Security Officer position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Security Officer at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Applying security and intelligence technical methods, policies, regulations, and procedures to manage and provide advice and guidance on multi-discipline security program areas to include Personnel Security (PERSEC), Information Security (INFOSEC), Foreign Disclosure (FD), and Industrial Security (INDUSEC): 2) Providing general direction to Program Managers and workers; 3) Developing work improvement plans and recommending personnel actions as necessary; 4) Developing long/short range strategic planning that initiates projects that are intended to update and modernize current security policy; AND 5) Preparing and presenting oral and written presentations related to security matters.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has five response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.
Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are the Security Officer at a multi-tenant federal facility housing both USACE and non-USACE organizations. During a routine review, you discover that three separate security incidents occurred over the past month: unauthorized personnel accessed a restricted area, a DEERS/RAPIDS workstation experienced a 4-hour outage affecting CAC issuance, and the contracted guard force failed to complete required patrol logs for two consecutive nights. Senior leadership expects a briefing on your corrective action plan within 48 hours. What is your BEST course of action?
 Delegate the investigation of each incident to your three subordinate supervisors to handle independently, consolidate their findings into a single briefing document, and recommend hiring additional security personnel to prevent future incidents from occurring across the facility.
 Immediately increase guard patrols in the affected restricted area, personally monitor the DEERS/RAPIDS system for the next week to prevent future outages, and schedule individual counseling sessions with each guard who failed to complete patrol logs before briefing leadership.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of all three incidents to identify systemic program gaps, develop an integrated corrective action plan addressing root causes across access control procedures and contractor oversight, and brief leadership on both immediate fixes and long-term program improvements with measurable performance metrics.
 Focus on the guard force performance issue by conducting a contract compliance review and issuing a corrective action notice to the contractor, then address the access control breach through updated procedures, while requesting IT support to resolve the DEERS/RAPIDS technical problem.
 Prioritize the unauthorized access incident by implementing immediate physical security enhancements, schedule a meeting with the guard contractor to address performance deficiencies, and develop a separate action plan for the DEERS/RAPIDS system redundancy to present during the leadership briefing.


2.
A new DoD directive significantly changes physical security requirements for facilities housing senior military leadership. Your organization protects a 3-star Commanding General's executive suite and must implement these changes within 90 days. However, initial assessments reveal that full compliance will require facility modifications costing $450,000, and several tenant organizations are unclear about how the new requirements affect their operations. How should you proceed?
 Draft a comprehensive policy memorandum translating the directive into organization-specific procedures, schedule briefings with all tenant commanders to explain the new requirements and associated costs, and submit a funding request through your chain of command while documenting compliance gaps.
 Focus resources on immediately upgrading security for the Commanding General's executive suite to meet the new standards, then address tenant organization requirements after the primary mission is secured, requesting a waiver for the 90-day deadline if additional time is needed.
 Create detailed standard operating procedures implementing every aspect of the new directive, distribute them to all tenant organizations via email with a compliance deadline, and schedule follow-up inspections in 60 days to verify that everyone has adopted the new standards.
 Develop a phased implementation plan with clear compliance milestones, create tailored guidance documents for each affected tenant organization explaining their specific requirements, and coordinate with resource managers and facility engineers to identify funding sources while establishing interim security measures during the transition period.
 Immediately brief the Commanding General on the new requirements and cost implications, develop a single all-hands message explaining the directive changes to the entire workforce, and work with contracting to expedite the facility modification procurement process to meet the deadline.


3.
You are tasked with developing a comprehensive security program for a newly constructed federal facility that will house classified operations, sensitive engineering data, and approximately 200 personnel including contractor employees. The facility will become operational in six months. Leadership has asked you to present a program development strategy that addresses physical security, information security, personnel security, and emergency management. What approach demonstrates the most effective program management?
 Begin by implementing standard physical security measures such as access control systems and intrusion detection, then layer in information security protocols based on classification levels, followed by personnel security procedures, while developing emergency management plans in parallel with facility construction completion.
 Conduct a mission-based risk assessment to identify critical assets and threat vulnerabilities, develop an integrated security program framework that aligns physical, information, and personnel security measures with mission requirements, establish baseline metrics for program effectiveness, and create a phased implementation timeline that prioritizes mission-critical protections while building comprehensive coverage.
 Assign each security discipline to a different subordinate supervisor to develop independently, require them to submit their individual program plans within 30 days, then integrate the separate plans into a master security program and brief leadership on the consolidated approach.
 Review comparable federal facility security programs to identify best practices, adapt their successful elements to your facility's requirements, develop separate but coordinated plans for each security discipline, and establish a security working group with representatives from all stakeholder organizations to oversee implementation.
 Prioritize immediate procurement of security technology systems including CCTV, badging equipment, and intrusion detection to ensure they are installed before facility opening, develop security policies based on existing organizational templates, and plan to refine procedures during the first year of operations based on lessons learned.


4.
Three new security-related directives were published within the past month: an updated Army regulation on physical security standards, a revised DoD instruction on controlled unclassified information (CUI), and new OPSEC guidance from your higher headquarters. Each directive contains provisions that may affect your current security programs, but you have limited time to conduct a thorough analysis while maintaining ongoing operations. Your commander expects a briefing on compliance requirements and resource implications within two weeks. What is your most appropriate approach?
 Review all three directives to extract specific compliance deadlines and mandatory actions, develop a checklist of required changes for each security program area, and brief the commander on what must be done by when, requesting additional staff resources to conduct detailed implementation planning.
 Assign each directive to a subject matter expert on your staff for detailed analysis, require them to identify all changes affecting their functional area and recommend implementation approaches, then synthesize their assessments into a comprehensive briefing that addresses cross-functional impacts and resource needs.
 Systematically review each directive to identify specific provisions affecting current programs, conduct a gap analysis comparing new requirements against existing procedures, assess resource and timeline implications for compliance, and develop a prioritized implementation strategy that addresses critical requirements first while planning for comprehensive integration.
 Distribute copies of all three directives to your subordinate supervisors and tenant organization security managers, request they review for applicability to their areas and report any concerns, then compile their feedback into a briefing highlighting potential compliance challenges.
 Focus initial analysis on the Army regulation since it likely has the broadest impact on physical security operations, identify immediate compliance actions required, and schedule follow-up reviews of the DoD instruction and OPSEC guidance after addressing the most pressing requirements.


5.
Your organization's physical security plan requires all personnel to use designated entry control points with badge readers, but this creates significant delays during shift changes when 200+ employees arrive within a 30-minute window. Employees are increasingly frustrated, some have begun tailgating through doors to avoid lines, and tenant commanders are requesting policy exceptions. However, relaxing access controls could compromise security for classified operations and senior leadership protection. How should you address this conflict between security requirements and operational efficiency?
 Conduct a risk assessment of current access control procedures to determine if any requirements can be adjusted without compromising security, propose staggered shift times to reduce congestion at entry points, and recommend installing additional access control infrastructure at secondary entrances to distribute personnel flow.
 Analyze traffic flow patterns and peak usage data to identify bottlenecks, explore technology solutions such as additional badge readers or expedited screening lanes for pre-vetted personnel, develop a pilot program testing alternative access procedures that maintain security while improving throughput, and measure effectiveness before recommending policy modifications.
 Recommend maintaining current security procedures as written since they are based on regulatory requirements, increase security patrols to prevent tailgating violations, and advise tenant commanders that operational convenience cannot take precedence over protection of classified information and senior leadership.
 Implement a temporary badge color-coding system that allows security guards to visually identify employees who work in non-classified areas for expedited screening, increase guard staffing during peak hours to process personnel more quickly, and develop educational materials explaining why security procedures are necessary.
 Meet with tenant commanders to understand their operational requirements and explain the security rationale for current procedures, explore whether certain employee populations could use alternative entry points based on their work locations, and recommend a policy allowing supervisors to authorize flexible arrival times within a broader window.


6.
A tenant organization requests approval to conduct an outdoor ceremony honoring visiting foreign dignitaries on the facility grounds. The event will include approximately 150 attendees, some without security clearances, in an area adjacent to a building housing classified operations. The ceremony is scheduled in three weeks, and the requesting organization has already coordinated with protocol and public affairs. Your initial security assessment identifies several concerns including sight lines to sensitive areas, unvetted attendee access, and potential OPSEC vulnerabilities. What is your best approach to this operational security challenge?
 Review the event plan against established security guidelines to determine what mitigations are required, coordinate with the tenant organization to implement necessary security measures such as temporary screening procedures and restricted access zones, and approve the ceremony contingent on full implementation of all required security controls.
 Approve the ceremony as requested since it has already been coordinated with protocol and public affairs, but require the requesting organization to provide their own security personnel to control attendee access and ensure no one approaches the building housing classified operations during the event.
 Conduct a comprehensive security assessment of the proposed ceremony location and activities, identify specific vulnerabilities and develop targeted mitigation measures such as visual barriers, designated access routes, and attendee vetting procedures, coordinate with the requesting organization to modify event plans as needed to address security concerns, and document the approved security plan with implemented mitigations.
 Recommend postponing the ceremony until a complete security assessment can be conducted and all necessary mitigations implemented, brief leadership on the OPSEC risks associated with the current timeline, and offer to work with the requesting organization to develop a more secure event plan for a later date.
 Meet with the requesting organization to understand ceremony requirements and explain security concerns, propose an alternative location that provides adequate separation from sensitive operations, develop a security plan that includes controlled access procedures and coordination with the guard force, and obtain leadership approval for the mitigated approach.


7.
Intelligence reports indicate an increased threat level for federal facilities in your region due to recent geopolitical events. Your commander has directed you to develop a security awareness communication for the workforce that provides appropriate situational awareness without causing undue alarm. The audience includes military personnel, civilian employees, and contractors with varying levels of security knowledge, working across multiple facilities. What approach best accomplishes this communication objective?
 Prepare a comprehensive security bulletin that details the specific threat information, explains the intelligence assessment process, describes all security countermeasures being implemented across the organization, and provides extensive guidance on protective actions personnel should take both at work and at home.
 Create a tiered communication approach with a general all-hands message providing basic threat awareness and protective guidance, supplemented by more detailed briefings for supervisors and security personnel who need additional context, and include contact information for personnel to ask questions or report concerns.
 Draft a straightforward security advisory that describes the increased threat level, lists observable security enhancements personnel will notice such as increased guard presence, provides reporting procedures for suspicious activity, and reminds everyone to remain vigilant while following established security protocols.
 Develop a clear, factual message that explains the general nature of the threat without disclosing classified details, provides specific protective actions personnel should take, emphasizes the importance of reporting suspicious activity, and reassures the workforce that enhanced security measures are being implemented while maintaining a professional tone appropriate for the diverse audience.
 Develop a brief message informing personnel that threat levels have increased and additional security measures are being implemented, advise everyone to follow instructions from security personnel, and indicate that more detailed information will be provided to those with a need to know.


8.
You are responsible for conducting annual security surveys across five facilities in the National Capital Region, including sites housing senior leadership, classified operations, and two deactivated nuclear reactor facilities. You have a team of three security specialists and a 90-day window to complete all surveys before the annual security assessment is due to higher headquarters. Each facility has unique security requirements and operational constraints. How should you structure this survey effort to ensure comprehensive vulnerability identification?
 Assign each security specialist to independently survey one or two facilities using their professional judgment to identify vulnerabilities, require them to complete their assigned surveys within 60 days, then use the final 30 days to personally review their findings and prepare the consolidated annual assessment.
 Begin surveys at the most accessible facilities to establish a baseline timeline, assign each security specialist responsibility for specific security disciplines across all facilities, coordinate survey schedules with facility managers to minimize operational disruption, and consolidate findings into a comprehensive report identifying common vulnerabilities and facility-specific issues.
 Create facility-specific survey checklists based on applicable security regulations and each site's unique requirements, schedule surveys in order of facility priority with senior leadership and nuclear sites first, divide facilities among team members to maximize efficiency, and require detailed vulnerability reports with photographic documentation and recommended corrective actions.
 Develop a standardized survey methodology that addresses common security elements while incorporating facility-specific assessment criteria, prioritize survey scheduling based on mission criticality and time since last assessment, assign team members based on their expertise and facility complexity, conduct collaborative surveys at high-risk facilities, and establish a systematic process for documenting findings and tracking identified vulnerabilities.
 Conduct initial surveys at all five facilities simultaneously using your entire team to identify obvious vulnerabilities quickly, then schedule follow-up detailed assessments at facilities where significant issues were found, and focus remaining time on developing corrective action plans for the most critical vulnerabilities.


9.
During a comprehensive facility security survey, you identify multiple physical security discrepancies: perimeter fencing does not meet current standards in two locations, intrusion detection coverage has gaps in three areas, security lighting is inadequate in parking areas, and one entry control point lacks proper access control technology. Correcting all deficiencies would cost approximately $380,000, but your annual security budget has only $75,000 remaining. Leadership expects your recommendations within one week. What is the most appropriate way to present these findings and recommendations?
 Recommend immediately correcting the most visible deficiencies such as perimeter fencing and lighting to demonstrate security program responsiveness, propose temporary procedural controls like increased guard patrols to compensate for technology gaps, and advise leadership that full compliance will require additional funding in future budget cycles.
 Conduct a risk-based analysis of each deficiency considering threat levels, asset criticality, and potential consequences, develop a prioritized recommendation that addresses the most critical vulnerabilities within current budget constraints while proposing a phased approach for remaining deficiencies, provide cost-benefit analysis for each recommendation, and identify potential alternative funding sources or interim mitigation measures for unfunded requirements.
 Categorize deficiencies by severity and regulatory compliance requirements, recommend immediate correction of any issues that violate mandatory security standards using available funds, propose interim compensatory measures for remaining deficiencies, and submit a detailed budget request for next fiscal year to address all outstanding physical security requirements.
 Document all deficiencies in a comprehensive report with photographic evidence and regulatory references, recommend that leadership decide which corrections are most important based on operational priorities, and indicate that you will implement whatever solutions can be accomplished within the remaining budget allocation.
 Present all identified deficiencies with associated costs and regulatory citations, recommend prioritizing corrections based on which vulnerabilities pose the greatest immediate risk to personnel and assets, suggest reallocating funds from lower-priority security programs if possible, and request leadership guidance on prioritization if additional funding cannot be obtained.


10.
You are managing a vulnerability tracking program that currently includes 23 open security deficiencies across multiple facilities, ranging from minor procedural issues to significant physical security gaps. Eight vulnerabilities are approaching their required mitigation deadlines within the next 45 days, including three that require facility modifications still in the contracting process. Your higher headquarters conducts quarterly reviews of vulnerability management, and the next review is in 30 days. How should you manage this situation to ensure appropriate risk management and compliance?
 Prioritize the three vulnerabilities requiring facility modifications by accelerating coordination with contracting and facility engineering, implement interim compensatory measures for vulnerabilities that cannot be fully mitigated by the deadline, update your vulnerability tracking system with current status and projected completion dates, and prepare a status briefing for leadership that clearly identifies on-track versus at-risk mitigations.
 Update the vulnerability tracking database with current status of all open items, send reminder notifications to all responsible parties about approaching deadlines, schedule follow-up meetings with facility managers to discuss mitigation progress, and prepare a detailed report for the higher headquarters review explaining the status of each vulnerability.
 Focus immediate attention on vulnerabilities with the nearest deadlines, work with responsible parties to expedite any pending actions, document progress on all mitigation efforts, identify obstacles preventing timely completion, and request deadline extensions from higher headquarters for vulnerabilities where mitigation cannot be completed due to circumstances beyond your control.
 Conduct a comprehensive review of all approaching-deadline vulnerabilities to assess current mitigation status, coordinate with facility managers and contracting personnel to obtain realistic completion timelines, identify which vulnerabilities require risk acceptance decisions due to resource or timeline constraints, prepare documentation supporting risk acceptance recommendations where mitigation cannot be completed on schedule, and brief leadership on status and required decisions before the higher headquarters review.
 Implement immediate procedural controls to temporarily mitigate the most critical vulnerabilities until permanent solutions can be completed, extend internal tracking deadlines for vulnerabilities still in the contracting process since delays are not within your control, and focus the higher headquarters review briefing on successfully completed mitigations rather than outstanding items.


11.
Your commander has requested a comprehensive quarterly security report that will be presented to senior leadership including the 3-star Commanding General. The report must address physical security program status, recent security incidents and trends, vulnerability management progress, contractor performance, and resource requirements. You have significant data available but need to present complex security information in a format that enables strategic decision-making by leaders who may not have detailed security expertise. What approach best accomplishes this reporting objective?
 Focus the report on positive accomplishments and successfully completed security initiatives to demonstrate program effectiveness, briefly mention any significant security incidents with explanations of how they were resolved, present vulnerability management data showing progress on mitigations, and include a separate resource request document for leadership consideration.
 Create a comprehensive report that thoroughly documents all security program activities during the quarter, organize information by security discipline for clarity, include statistical data on all relevant metrics, provide detailed explanations of any security incidents and lessons learned, and present resource requirements with cost estimates and justification.
 Structure the report with an executive summary highlighting key findings and decisions required, organize detailed analysis by program area with clear metrics showing performance trends, use visual representations such as charts and graphs to illustrate complex data, provide context for security incidents by comparing to historical trends and similar organizations, present resource requirements with clear justification linked to mission impact, and include specific recommendations with risk implications for leadership consideration.
 Prepare a data-driven report that presents all available security metrics and statistics, organize content chronologically to show progression through the quarter, include detailed descriptions of contractor performance issues and corrective actions, document all open vulnerabilities and their mitigation status, and conclude with a summary of resource needs.
 Develop a concise executive-level report focusing on strategic issues and decisions needed from leadership, supported by detailed appendices containing program metrics and analysis for those who want additional information, ensure all security incidents are presented with context about corrective actions taken, and clearly articulate resource gaps and their potential impact on security posture.


12.
You are responsible for monitoring information security program effectiveness across multiple contractor facilities that support classified USACE engineering projects. During a recent assessment, you observed varying levels of compliance: one facility has excellent classified document controls but weak IT security practices, another has strong technical controls but inadequate security training, and a third facility is generally compliant but has experienced two security incidents in the past quarter. Each facility operates under different contract vehicles with different security requirements. How should you approach ongoing monitoring to ensure consistent program effectiveness?
 Establish baseline security requirements that all contractor facilities must meet regardless of contract type, conduct risk-based assessments focusing more attention on facilities with recent security incidents or identified weaknesses, require contractors to develop corrective action plans for any deficiencies, and monitor implementation of improvements through follow-up inspections and documentation reviews.
 Develop a comprehensive monitoring framework that evaluates both compliance with contract security requirements and effectiveness of security practices, establish facility-specific performance metrics based on their unique operations and risk profiles, implement a combination of scheduled assessments and random inspections, require contractors to provide regular self-assessment reports, analyze incident trends and corrective actions, and provide feedback to contracting officers on contractor security performance with recommendations for contract modifications if needed.
 Increase monitoring frequency at the facility that experienced recent security incidents, provide additional security training resources to the facility with inadequate training programs, recommend that the facility with weak IT security practices upgrade their technical controls, and conduct follow-up assessments in 90 days to verify improvements have been implemented.
 Require all contractor facilities to adopt the security practices used by the best-performing facility, conduct simultaneous assessments at all facilities to ensure consistent evaluation standards, issue detailed corrective action requirements for any identified deficiencies, and recommend contract modifications to standardize security requirements across all contractor facilities.
 Create a standardized assessment checklist covering all aspects of information security programs, conduct quarterly on-site reviews at each facility using the same evaluation criteria, require contractors to submit monthly security metrics reports, track security incidents and violations across all facilities to identify systemic issues, and coordinate with contracting officers to address persistent deficiencies through contract enforcement mechanisms.


13.
Your organization's current access control system uses a combination of physical badges, PIN codes, and security guard verification at entry control points. Recent analysis shows that processing time during peak hours creates congestion, some employees share PIN codes to expedite entry, and the system cannot easily generate reports on access patterns for security investigations. Leadership wants recommendations for improving the access control program's effectiveness while maintaining appropriate security levels. What analysis and recommendation approach is most appropriate?
 Analyze current access control vulnerabilities with emphasis on PIN code sharing and inadequate audit capabilities, research available access control technologies that address these specific weaknesses, evaluate several technology solutions based on security effectiveness, cost, and compatibility with existing infrastructure, and recommend a system upgrade that eliminates identified vulnerabilities while improving processing efficiency.
 Focus analysis on the most critical weakness of PIN code sharing by implementing immediate procedural controls and security awareness training, research access control systems used by other federal agencies to identify potential technology solutions, recommend upgrading to a system that eliminates the need for PIN codes, and propose a pilot program at one entry point to test effectiveness before full implementation.
 Recommend immediately implementing biometric access control technology since it represents the most secure and efficient solution, eliminate PIN codes to prevent sharing, increase security guard staffing during peak hours to maintain security while the new system is being installed, and require all employees to enroll in the biometric system within 30 days of implementation.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of current system performance including throughput rates, security effectiveness, user compliance, and reporting capabilities, benchmark against industry best practices and similar federal facilities, evaluate emerging access control technologies such as biometrics or multi-factor authentication, assess costs and implementation requirements for potential improvements, analyze how proposed changes would address identified weaknesses while maintaining security, and develop a phased modernization recommendation that balances security effectiveness, operational efficiency, and resource constraints.
 Review access control procedures to identify why employees are sharing PIN codes and develop solutions such as additional entry points or modified procedures to reduce congestion, evaluate whether current badge technology can be enhanced to improve security and reporting, assess the cost of upgrading to a more modern system, and recommend improvements that can be implemented within available budget.


14.
You have identified several operational inefficiencies in how your security staff handles classified document control, visitor access processing, and security incident reporting. Current procedures are outdated, inconsistently applied across different shifts, and do not reflect recent regulatory changes. Your three subordinate supervisors have requested clearer guidance to ensure their teams are operating consistently and in compliance with current requirements. What is the most effective approach to developing improved written procedures?

 Assign each subordinate supervisor responsibility for drafting procedures in their area of expertise, provide them with regulatory references and a standard format to use, review their draft procedures for consistency and compliance, consolidate them into a comprehensive procedures manual, and distribute the final manual to all security personnel.
 Conduct a thorough review of current operations to identify specific procedural gaps and inconsistencies, research applicable regulations and best practices, collaborate with subordinate supervisors to understand operational challenges and gather input on practical solutions, develop clear, comprehensive procedures that address regulatory requirements while supporting operational efficiency, include decision matrices or flowcharts for complex processes, pilot new procedures with one shift to identify issues before full implementation, and provide training to ensure consistent understanding and application.
 Meet with subordinate supervisors to identify their most critical procedural needs, prioritize developing procedures for areas with the greatest operational impact or compliance risk, draft clear written guidance addressing those priority areas first, provide the new procedures to supervisors with instructions to implement them with their teams, and develop remaining procedures on a phased schedule.
 Review all applicable regulations and directives to ensure procedures reflect current requirements, draft comprehensive standard operating procedures for each functional area, coordinate draft procedures with subordinate supervisors for their review and feedback, incorporate their input to ensure procedures are practical and complete, and issue final procedures with a requirement for supervisors to train their personnel and verify understanding.
 Immediately issue interim guidance addressing the most critical compliance issues, require subordinate supervisors to ensure their teams follow current regulations even if detailed procedures are not yet documented, develop comprehensive written procedures over the next 90 days, and implement new procedures once they are complete and approved by leadership.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙