Position Title
Electrician Power Systems SubOperator
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVM-26-13052586-DE-BLO Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


You are applying under the Delegated Examining announcement. If you want to be considered under the concurrent Merit Promotion announcement, you must submit a separate application under that announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.


To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.


2.
I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


4.
Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.).


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


1.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


2.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently possess a valid driver's license?
 Yes
 No


4.
Provide your driver's license number, state in which issued, and expiration date of license.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF THE POSITION WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT). This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a journeyman-level power system electrician in an Industrial generating station, switchyard, dam, processing plant, or other Industrial facility without more than normal supervision. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a journeyman-level power system electrician in an Industrial generating station, switchyard, dam, processing plant, or other Industrial facility without more than normal supervision. Your response below must be fully supported in your resume, or you will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have performed installation or basic maintenance on low-voltage equipment up to 240 VAC in an industrial or commercial facility.
 I have performed installation or basic maintenance on low-voltage equipment up to 600 VAC in an industrial or commercial facility.
 I have independently installed, maintained, tested, and repaired high-voltage equipment up to 7200KV
 I have independently installed, maintained, tested, and worked with Electrical systems up to 25KV.
 I have independently installed, maintained, tested, and repaired complex generation, distribution, and transmission equipment (up to 230kV) in a large industrial facility with multiple generators


Knowledge of Electrical Equipment


2.
Select the electrical and electronic equipment/ systems you have maintained in a commercial or industrial work environment.
 A. Power Transformers rated up to 230 kV
 B. Distribution transformers
 C. Instrument transformers
 D. High-voltage cable systems
 E. Station electrical power circuits
 F. Low voltage distribution circuits
 G. Pump Motor control systems
 H. Solid state control components
 I. Electrical control circuits
 J. Switchboard control panels
 K. Computer based control interfaces
 L. LAN connected plant monitoring hardware
 M. Security system wiring and control panels
 N. Fire alarm electrical and communication circuits
 O. Motor driven mechanical systems (cranes up to 290 tons; elevators up to 10,000 lb capacity)
 P. HVAC electrical and control systems
 Q. None of the above


Knowledge of Electrical Equipment


3.
Select the response that best reflects your level of experience, education, or training in repairing electronic and electrical equipment associated with hydroelectric powerplant facilities. This includes repairing most, if not all, of the following systems and components: large pumps, digital governors, generators, cranes, gate controls, valve controls, voltage regulators, HVAC systems and power transformers.

 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task, but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks and have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level experience performing these tasks and these tasks were a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed and have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.


Knowledge of Electrical Equipment


4.
Choose the response that best reflects your level of experience and knowledge in working with electrical equipment, including high voltage cables, generators, turbines, pumps, cooling water systems, lubricating oil systems, cranes, motors, transformers, high and low voltage circuit breakers, HVAC systems, lighting systems, elevators, switchyard equipment, low voltage distribution systems, battery systems, security and fire alarm systems, computer and LAN equipment, and shop machinery.

 I have no training or experience in this area with the above electrical equipment.
 I have completed education or training in the above electrical equipment but have not yet applied this training or experience on the job.
 I have journeyman-level knowledge and experience in the above electrical equipment, on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper application.
 I have journeyman-level knowledge and experience of the above electrical equipment and have applied this knowledge as a regular part of my job. I have applied this knowledge and experience with electrical equipment independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level knowledge and experience in the above electrical equipment and application of this knowledge was a central or major part of my job. I have routinely demonstrated expert knowledge and have trained others in the above electrical equipment and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance with the above electrical equipment.


Troubleshooting (Electrical)


5.
Select the response that best describes your experience, education, or training in maintaining electrical and electronic systems in a hydroelectric powerplant, switchyard, and dam. This includes installing, testing, repairing, and troubleshooting 230 kV power transformers, high and low voltage circuit breakers, fiber optic and communication circuits, generator and turbine electrical systems, cooling water and lubrication controls, electrical control circuits, meters and relays, cranes, elevators, HVAC and refrigeration units, battery systems, and other solid state components used in hydroelectric operations.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining hydroelectric electrical or electronic systems.
 I have education or training in maintaining hydroelectric electrical and electronic systems (such as power transformers, circuit breakers, control circuits, or plant auxiliary electrical systems), but I have not yet applied this training in a work environment.
 I have journeyman level experience maintaining hydroelectric electrical and electronic systems—including installing, testing, repairing, or troubleshooting items such as power transformers, high voltage breakers, generator/turbine electrical systems, control circuits, meters, relays, cranes, elevators, HVAC, refrigeration units, fiber optic or communication circuits. My work was performed under close supervision to ensure proper procedures, safety, and compliance.
 I have independent journeyman level experience, performing maintenance of hydroelectric electrical and electronic systems as a regular part of my job. I have performed tasks such as troubleshooting and solid state components, maintaining generator and turbine electrical systems, working with 230 kV power equipment, and supporting plant operations with little to no supervisory review.
 I have advanced journeyman level experience where maintaining hydroelectric electrical and electronic systems was a central and ongoing part of my job. I have routinely trained others, provided expert guidance, and been sought out for assistance on complex issues involving systems such as 230 kV transformers, high voltage breakers, networks, fiber optic communication circuits, generator/turbine electrical systems, cranes, elevators, HVAC, and other solid state or control systems used in hydroelectric powerplant operations.


Troubleshooting (Electrical)


6.
Select the response that describes your experience, education, or training relative to powerplant emergency/abnormal conditions and the use of emergency/abnormal procedures.

 I have directed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have directed or conducted training for emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions as directed.
 I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have been trained in the use of emergency/abnormal response procedures.
 I have no experience with powerplant emergency/abnormal response actions.


Technical Practices (Theoretical, Precise, Artistic)


7.
Select the response that best reflects your level of experience, education, or training in repairing electronic and electrical equipment within a powerplant or industrial facility. This includes repairing most, if not all, of the following systems and components: pumps, electrical control systems, remote indication systems, gate controls, valve controls, and power systems.

 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks and have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level experience performing these tasks and these tasks were a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed and have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.


Technical Practices (Theoretical, Precise, Artistic) COMPETENCY ID 50083


8.
Select the response that describes your level of experience associated with the operation of powerplant equipment, auxiliary equipment, and related control or protective equipment.
 I have performed or supervised the function of powerplant operator independently and routinely at a hydroelectric power generating facility greater than 50MW.
 I have performed or supervised the function of powerplant operator independently and routinely at a power generating facility of greater than 50MW, per unit.
 I have performed or supervised the function of power plant operator independently and routinely at a power generating facility of less than 50 MW, per unit, but greater than 10MW, per unit.
 I have performed the function of power plant operator independently and routinely in a generating facility less than 10 MW, per unit.
 I have not performed these job functions.


Technical Practices (Theoretical, Precise, Artistic)


9.
Select the response that best describes the training you have completed related to power plant operations.

 I have not completed any formal or structured training related to hydroelectric powerplant operations, electrical systems, mechanical systems, or safety programs referenced in the Position Description.
 I have completed coursework or technical classroom training related to electrical or mechanical systems used in industrial facilities (e.g., basic electrical theory, motor controls, safety practices) but have not completed plant specific operational training and have limited or no exposure to hydroelectric systems.
 I have completed structured on the job training in an industrial, commercial, or utility environment that included work with electrical or mechanical systems similar to those found in a hydroelectric facility (e.g., motors, pumps, control circuits, HVAC, refrigeration units, switchgear, or low voltage distribution). My training included following schematics, SOPs, and safety procedures, but was not part of a formal powerplant operations program.
 I have completed organized technical training directly related to hydroelectric or utility plant operations—such as a vocational program, accredited technical certificate, military electrical/mechanical systems course, or structured industry training—which included substantial hands on work with plant electrical and mechanical systems and required proficiency in reading drawings, performing switching, and following plant SOPs.
 I have completed comprehensive, structured training specifically aligned with hydroelectric powerplant operations or maintenance. This training included hands on instruction in operating or maintaining systems such as hydroelectric generators, turbines, cooling water and lubrication systems, gates, cranes, elevators, HVAC, refrigeration units, 230 kV transformers, high voltage breakers, fiber optic communication circuits, and safe clearance procedures—and prepared me to perform these functions independently.
 None of the above.


Technical Practices (Theoretical, Precise, Artistic) COMPETENCY ID 50083


10.
Select the response that best reflects your level of experience, education, or training in performing electrical and electronic maintenance within an industrial facility or hydroelectric powerplant. This includes maintaining equipment such as electrical control circuits, switches, AC/DC motors, metering equipment, programmable logic controllers, and other related electrical and electronic systems.
 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have journey-man level experience in performing these tasks and have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level experience performing these tasks and these tasks were a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed and have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.


Technical Practices (Theoretical, Precise, Artistic) COMPETENCY ID 50083


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I am familiar with and have performed job duties as an electrician which include a focus on basic safety, tools, and fundamentals, wiring, circuits, code requirements, safety procedures, and specialized systems; electrical theory, system design, building codes, low-voltage cabling, HVAC electrical, and high-voltage systems.
 Yes
 No


Technical Practices (Theoretical, Precise, Artistic) COMPETENCY ID 50083


12.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience associated with the operation of switchyard equipment, including high voltage circuit breakers, associated disconnects, associated ground switches, and related control or protective equipment.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above independently and routinely in switchyards rated at 6.9 KV - 115KV within the last two years.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above independently and routinely in switchyards rated at 230 KV and/or higher within the last two years.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above at the direction of a more qualified person in switchyards rated at 6.9KV - 115KV within the last two years.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above at the direction of a more qualified person in switchyards rated at 230 KV and/or higher within the last two years.
 I have no training or experience in this area.


Ability to use Electrical Drawings


13.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience, education or training in reading and interpreting wiring diagrams and schematic drawings to maintain and repair electronic equipment associated with a hydroelectric powerplant facility, large steam or nuclear powerplant, or commercial/industrial communications environment.

 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have experience reading and have interpreted wiring diagrams and schematic drawings to maintain and repair electrical equipment in an industrial maintenance facility.
 I have experience reading and have interpreted wiring diagrams and schematic drawings to maintain and repair electronic equipment in a powerplant facility.
 I have experience reading and have interpreted wiring diagrams and schematic drawings to maintain and repair electronic equipment in a hydroelectric powerplant. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely and I have made corrections to drawings to reflect actual conditions.


Ability to use Electrical Drawings


14.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience, education or training in using equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for electronic equipment.

 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for electrical equipment in an industrial maintenance facility.
 I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for electrical equipment in a powerplant facility.
 I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for electrical equipment in a hydroelectric powerplant. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely.


Ability To Use Electrical Drawings


15.
Which of the following electrical drawings have you used to maintain or repair electrical/electronic equipment associated with a hydroelectric powerplant, large steam or nuclear powerplant, or commercial/industrial communications environment.

 A. Electrical Schematics
 B. Wiring Diagrams
 C. Single Line Diagrams
 D. Three Line Diagrams
 E. Control Logic Diagrams
 F. Switchboard / Control Panel Layouts
 G. Terminal Board & Connection Diagrams
 H. Motor Control Diagrams (AC/DC motors, pumps, gates, cranes, elevators)
 I. Generator & Turbine Electrical System Diagrams
 J. High Voltage Breaker, Switchgear & Switching Diagrams
 K. Instrument Transformer & Metering Diagrams
 L. HVAC & Refrigeration Electrical Control Diagrams
 M. Battery & DC Control System Diagrams
 N. Mechanical Electrical Interface Diagrams
 O. Blueprints for Electrical Installations
 P. None of the above.


Ability to Use and Maintain Hand Tools (Electrical Work)


16.
Select the response that best describes your experience applying hazardous energy control practices in either Bureau of Reclamation facilities or private sector industrial environments. This includes performing work in full compliance with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation's Facilities, Instructions, Standards, and Techniques (FIST) Volume?1 1: Hazardous Energy Control Program or applying equivalent OSHA compliant lockout/tagout (LOTO) procedures to safely isolate and control hazardous energy during maintenance and operational activities.

 I have accepted/held clearances in a large hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200CFS capacity) and verified the clearance boundary.
 I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.


Ability to Use and Maintain Hand Tools (Electrical Work)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
Indicate your familiarity with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation's FIST Volume 1-1 Hazardous Energy Control Program or equivalent OSHA-compliant lockout/tagout regulations.
 Yes
 No


Ability to Use and Maintain Hand Tools (Electrical Work)


18.
Select the electrical and electronic equipment you have maintained in a commercial or industrial work environment.

 A. Rotating exciters
 V. Solid-state exciters
 W. Electro-mechanical exciters
 X. Solid-state elevators
 Y. Electro-mechanical elevators
 Z. Alarm systems
 AA. Generator controls
 AB. Electrical control circuits in powerplants
 AC. Electrical control circuits in pumping plants
 AD. Electrical control circuits in switchyards
 AE. Generators (less than 5MW)
 AF. Generators (greater than 5MW)
 AG. Power transformers 10KVA or larger
 AH. Transformers less than 10KVA
 AI. Power circuit breakers greater than 10 KA
 AJ. Switches
 AK. Busses (13.8 KV and larger)
 AL. Busses (less than 13.8 KV)
 AM. Electro-mechanical governor controls
 AN. AC motors
 AO. DC motors
 AP. Air compressors
 AQ. Solenoid valves
 AR. Motor controllers
 AS. Breakers, Switchgear, Cables less than 480VAC
 AT. Breakers, Switchgear, Cables 480VAC to 600VAC
 B. Breakers, Switchgear, Cables 600VAC-2.4KV
 C. Breakers, Switchgear, Cables 2.4KV-13.8KV
 D. Breakers, Switchgear, Cables 13.8KV-230KV
 E. High voltage cable splicing
 F. Conduit bending
 G. Motor operated valves
 H. Refrigeration equipment
 I. Lighting fixtures
 J. Industrial wiring
 K. Programmable logic control
 L. Communication cable
 M. Capacitors
 N. Inductors
 O. Surge arrestors
 P. Potential transformers
 Q. Current transformers
 R. DC battery systems
 S. AC UPS systems
 T. Voltage detectors (tic tracer)
 U. None of the above


Theory and Instruments (Electrical, Electronic) Used in Shop and Trade Practices


19.
Choose the response that best describes your journeyman power system electrician experience with electrical and electronic theory and instruments. This includes knowledge of basic electrical theory (such as series and parallel circuits), ability to interpret instructions and assignments, and proficiency in using practical measurement tools (analog meters, digital voltmeters, oscilloscopes, bridge networks). Select the option that most accurately reflects your experience and knowledge in applying theory and operating essential instruments for accurate measurements and effective engineering practice.

 I have no training or experience in this area with the above Theory and Instruments (Electrical, Electronic) used in shop and trade practices.
 I have completed education or training in the above electrical Theory and Instruments (Electrical, Electronic) used in shop and trade practices but have not yet applied this training or experience on the job.
 I have journeyman-level knowledge and experience in the above electrical Theory and Instruments (Electrical, Electronic) used in shop and trade practices, on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper application.
 I have journeyman-level knowledge and experience of the above electrical Theory and Instruments (Electrical, Electronic) used in shop and trade practices and have applied this knowledge as a regular part of my job. I have applied this knowledge and experience with electrical equipment independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level knowledge and experience in the above electrical Theory and Instruments (Electrical, Electronic) used in shop and trade practices and application of this knowledge was a central or major part of my job. I have routinely demonstrated expert knowledge and have trained others in the above electrical equipment and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance with the above electrical equipment.


20.
What types of Electrical work have you performed in the past?
 A. Residential
 B. Low voltage
 C. Commercial
 D. Oil & Gas
 E. Mining
 F. Industrial
 G. Processing
 H. Solid state
 I. Power Generation
 J. None of the above


21.
What level of Electrical experience do you have?
 A. Apprentice 3 years or less
 B. Apprentice 3 years or more
 C. Journeyman Electrician 4-8 years
 D. Journeyman/Master 8+ years
 E. MSHA Electrician
 F. Lineman worker
 G. None of the above


22.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due. I understand that responding "No" to this question will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙