Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic Leader
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-MRSD-26-12828911 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 24, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


FLETC Data
1.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


2.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


3.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


4.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


5.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


Condition of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing to complete an initial and annual physical examination that measures visual, hearing, and physical acuity.
 Yes
 No


Position and Application Information
• Please limit your resume to 2 pages. DO NOT submit more than one resume, if you do, we will only review the resume with the latest time stamp on it. • Please ensure your resume does not have any photographs, social media links (ex. LinkedIn, Facebook, etc.) or Sensitive Personally identifiable information (SPII) such as social security numbers on bit or you may not be considered for this position. • When uploading documentation to your application, please ensure that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one, (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, you will need to combine them into one PDF file and then upload them under the SF-50 folder. • Please make sure you upload your documents in the correct folder. The only documents we will accept for this vacancy are what you will see in the drop-down menu. • You can make as many changes as you would like to your entire application BEFORE the announcement closes. • If you have any issues with your application, please contact the Point of Contact listed at the bottom of the announcement, AND USA Jobs BEFORE the closing date. USA Jobs Help Desk https://apply.usastaffing.gov/HelpTicket , if you are still having issue with submitting a help desk ticket you can do the following, log into https://www.usajobs.gov, select "Track this application," and use the "Submit a Help Ticket" option from the Help Center


1.
Do you understand that this position is located in Glynco, Georgia?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you understand that if you are selected for this position, you will be required to report within 30 days after all pre-employment checks are completed. (Circumstances and Stipulations will vary)
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
This position is only open to current FLETC employees serving under a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. You must submit an SF-50 that shows you currently work for (DHS) FLETC on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service.
 Yes, I am a current FLETC employees serving under a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service.
 No, I am not a current FLETC employee.


2.
Select the answer below that best describing the highest level of experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Leader, WL-4749-10.  Experience performing duties at the journeyman level ensuring the proper operation, maintenance, and repair of building systems, including electrical, mechanical, and safety devices. I have consistently monitored, evaluated, and adjusted equipment and controls in facilities to maintain optimal performance and ensure compliance with safety regulations, to include experience in the operation and maintenance of digital-controlled environmental systems. My technical knowledge of building systems has enabled me to make critical decisions that directly impact facility operations, training schedules, and the overall functionality of training areas.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks, or I have received training on the performance of basic tasks.
 I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙