Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (ENTARCH) (Chief Technology Officer)
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26IMP12989932ZA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, Performance Appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NLRB employee on a Career or Career Conditional appointment in the competitive service? Block 24 on your SF-50 must reflect "1" or "2".  Block 34 must reflect "1".
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current NLRB employee on a Career or Career Conditional appointment in the competitive service and have held the highest grade of this recruitment? Block 24 on your SF-50 must reflect "1" or "2". Block 34 must reflect "1".
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


2.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


3.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To qualify for this position at the GS-15 grade level, individuals must have IT related experience demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience obtained in either the private or public sector, and/or completion of specific, intensive training that demonstrates each of the following four competencies:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Do you have the experience to demonstrate each of the four competencies listed above?
 Yes, I have experience demonstrating the four required IT-related competencies listed above.
 No, I do not have experience demonstrating the four required IT-related competencies as described above.


2.
In addition to meeting the Basic Qualifications above, to qualify for this position, you must have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-14 grade level, which has provided you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties as an Information Technology Specialist (ENTARCH) (Chief Technology Officer) at the GS-15 grade level.

Specialized experience includes:
Experience leading enterprise architecture activities, including designing, developing, and implementing enterprise architectures and producing related architectural documentation; and
Experience applying IT standards and directives (e.g., NIST guidance) to drive modernization efforts and incorporate those requirements into long-range technical strategies; and
Experience providing senior-level technical advice on technology trends, policy impacts, IT investment decisions, cybersecurity considerations, and enterprise risk as they relate to security architecture.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level and meet all of the specialized experience listed above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


3.
As noted in the vacancy announcement, your ratings in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
Understand this warning; and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙