Position Title
Criminal Investigator - Direct Hire
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12911023-26-DHA-OIG Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
Please read the questions carefully. Responding "No" may result in loss of further consideration.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Assessment 1


1.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the grade 12 position.
 I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-11, or equivalent, performing One of the following: (1) Planning criminal investigations with minimal oversight; (2) Collecting and organizing information for use in criminal investigations; (3) Reviewing statements or evidence obtained from various sources (for example, witnesses, financial institutions, databases) to determine the impact on criminal investigations; (4) Partnering with law enforcement agencies at the Federal, state, local, or tribal level to accomplish criminal investigative objectives
 My experience level is not described above.


2.
*-1. Please select the statement that best describes your eligibility under the age restriction for the federal law enforcement (FLEO) position: NOTE: Your date of birth will be verified. Please also note that you may be disqualified at any time during the process should it be determined that you will reach age 37 prior to appointment. (This does not apply to individuals currently employed in FLEO positions)
 I currently serve in a federal law enforcement (FLEO) position with a mandatory retirement age of 57.
 I have previously served in a federal law enforcement (FLEO) position with a mandatory retirement age of 57
 I am not a current/former federal law enforcement officer, BUT I am at least 21 years of age and not yet 37 years of age or older.
 None of the above


Assessment 2


Please respond to the following questions regarding your prior training and experience. Please note there are two question types: 1) Single Select - you will select one response that best matches your highest level of experience, and 2) Select All That Apply - you may select multiple responses that align with your experience(s).


3.
Conduct lawful physical searches of individuals to secure weapons, contraband, or other evidence.

 I have no training or experience conducting lawful physical searches of individuals.
 I have received training on how to conduct lawful physical searches of individuals.
 I have assisted more experienced investigators with conducting lawful physical searches of individuals.
 I have conducted lawful physical searches of individuals.
 I have formally trained or mentored other investigators on protocols and procedures for conducting lawful physical searches of individuals.


4.
Conduct lawful physical searches of vehicles, residences, or workplaces as part of a criminal investigation.

 I have no training or experience conducting lawful physical searches of vehicles, residences, or workplaces.
 I have received training on how to conduct lawful physical searches of vehicles, residences, or workplaces.
 I have assisted more experienced investigators with conducting lawful physical searches of vehicles, residences, or workplaces.
 I have conducted lawful physical searches of vehicles, residences, or workplaces.
 I have mentored other investigators on protocols and procedures for conducting lawful physical searches of vehicles, residences, or workplaces.


5.
Which of the following steps have you taken to document evidence during or after a search operation of a vehicle, residence, or workplace? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Taking photographs to document location, condition, packaging, or collection of evidence
 B. Seizing and cataloging evidence collected as part of a search
 C. Storing and maintaining evidence collected as part of a search
 D. Creating an inventory of all property seized during a search
 E. Creating a diagram of the search area for use in memorializing where each piece of evidence was seized
 F. Completing evidence seizure forms to ensure chain-of-custody is documented
 G. None of the above


6.
Obtain warrants from judges or magistrates to search physical locations.

 I have no training or experience obtaining a search warrant.
 I have received training on the process for obtaining a search warrant.
 I have drafted and sworn out a search warrant affidavit.
 I have drafted and sworn out a search warrant affidavit on multiple occasions.
 I have mentored other investigators on the process for obtaining a search warrant.


7.
Which of the following tasks have you performed to prepare for the execution of a search warrant in accordance with applicable laws and regulations? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Conducting surveillance to establish necessary details for a search warrant affidavit
 B. Planning operational details of the search effort, including identifying resources required and potential risks involved
 C. Leading a pre-operation briefing prior to the search warrant execution
 D. None of the above


8.
Serve on a search warrant entry team to clear an area prior to conducting a search effort.

 I have no training or experience serving on a search warrant entry team.
 I have received training on how to perform a search warrant entry.
 I have participated on a search warrant entry team.
 I have led a search warrant entry team.
 I have led an investigation or operation in which multiple search warrant entries were performed.


9.
Serve on a search team to execute a warrant and obtain evidence for a criminal investigation.

 I have no training or experience executing a search warrant.
 I have received training on how to execute a search warrant.
 I have participated on a search team executing a warrant.
 I have led a search team executing a warrant.
 I have led an investigation or operation in which multiple search warrants were executed.


10.
Obtain warrants from judges or magistrates to conduct an arrest.

 I have no training or experience obtaining an arrest warrant.
 I have received training on the process for obtaining an arrest warrant.
 I have drafted and sworn out an arrest warrant affidavit.
 I have drafted and sworn out an arrest warrant affidavit on multiple occasions.
 I have mentored other investigators on the process for obtaining an arrest warrant.


11.
Which of the following tasks have you performed to prepare for the execution of an arrest warrant in accordance with applicable laws and regulations? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Conducting surveillance to establish necessary details for an arrest warrant operation
 B. Planning operational details of the arrest operation, including identifying resources required and potential risks involved
 C. Leading a pre-operation briefing prior to the arrest warrant
 D. None of the above


12.
Which of the following activities have you performed in relation to executing an arrest warrant? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Practicing application of reasonable use of force in a training environment
 B. Employing de-escalation techniques with hostile or distressed individuals
 C. Clearing the suspect’s location (for example, residence, business) at the time of arrest
 D. Handcuffing suspects
 E. Searching incident to arrest
 F. Transporting persons in custody using restraining devices
 G. Completing intake forms to process persons in custody
 H. None of the above


13.
Interview individuals (for example, suspects, witnesses, complainants, victims) to elicit information relevant to criminal investigations.

 I have no training or experience conducting interviews.
 I have received training on methods for conducting interviews.
 I have contributed to an interview by taking notes for a lead investigator.
 I have conducted an interview with a cooperative individual and was able to acquire information needed to further a criminal investigation.
 I have conducted an interview both with cooperative and uncooperative individuals and was able to acquire information needed to further a criminal investigation.


14.
Obtain sworn written or verbal statements from individuals (for example, suspects, witnesses, complainants, victims) to ensure legally binding accounts for investigative and legal outcomes.

 I have no training or experience obtaining sworn written or verbal statements from individuals.
 I have received training on methods for obtaining sworn written or verbal statements from individuals.
 I have obtained sworn written or verbal statements from individuals under the guidance of others.
 I have obtained sworn written or verbal statements from individuals without the guidance of others.
 I have mentored other investigators on methods for obtaining sworn written or verbal statements from individuals.


15.
Which of the following activities have you performed as part of the interviewing process? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Researching and analyzing background information prior to the interview
 B. Building rapport with individuals to elicit information during an interview
 C. Questioning the individual being interviewed on relevant areas of concern
 D. Listening to and evaluating what the interviewee says to gauge consistency of information
 E. Taking notes during the interview for future reference
 F. Writing reports to memorialize the interview
 G. None of the above


16.
Obtain necessary approvals for surveillance operations to ensure legal compliance.

 I have no training or experience obtaining approval for surveillance operations.
 I have received training on means and procedures for obtaining approval for surveillance operations.
 I have assisted in the filing process for an approval.
 I have independently assembled information and filed for approval of either a physical or electronic surveillance operation.
 I have independently assembled and filed for approval of both a physical and electronic surveillance operation.
 I have mentored other investigators on the process for obtaining approval for both physical and electronic surveillance operations.


17.
Conduct physical surveillance activities of persons, places, or operations to obtain or verify information.

 I have no training or experience conducting physical surveillance activities.
 I have received training on methods for conducting physical surveillance activities.
 I have assisted others with conducting physical surveillance activities.
 I have independently conducted physical surveillance activities.
 I have mentored other investigations on methods for conducting physical surveillance activities.


18.
Which of the following behaviors or activities have you engaged in related to a physical surveillance operation? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Assembling background information in pre-surveillance planning
 B. Concealing your physical location to observe a subject without being noticed
 C. Capturing video or photographic evidence of the surveilled subject
 D. Recording notes and logs to ensure credible case documentation
 E. Compiling surveillance findings in reports
 F. Providing court testimony on a physical surveillance operation
 G. None of the above


19.
Conduct electronic surveillance activities of persons, places, or operations to obtain or verify information.

 I have no training or experience conducting electronic surveillance activities.
 I have received training on methods for conducting electronic surveillance activities.
 I have assisted others with conducting electronic surveillance activities.
 I have conducted electronic surveillance activities using standard equipment (for example, telephone, remote recording device).
 I have conducted electronic surveillance activities using specialized equipment (for example, hidden camera or recording device during an undercover operation).


20.
Which of the following behaviors or activities have you engaged in related to an electronic surveillance operation? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Identifying surveillance tools to use in an operation
 B. Configuring and deploying surveillance tools
 C. Monitoring electronic communications in real-time
 D. Documenting electronic activity and logs to ensure credible case documentation
 E. Processing and securely storing digital evidence
 F. Compiling surveillance findings in reports
 G. Providing court testimony on an electronic surveillance operation
 H. None of the above


21.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙