Position Title
Environmental Health Technician
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHS-26-13037226-DE-AKS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
9


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR Environmental Health Technician GS-0698-08/09.


Thank you for your interest in the Environmental Health Technician. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. If you change a response, be certain to unclick the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, that are left blank will not receive credit. You MUST document your responses in your resume. This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after you begin work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the Environmental Health Technician, GS-08. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration.
 Specialized experience includes work that involved identifying, preventing, or eliminating health hazards in one or more areas of environmental sanitation. Such experience must have provided a practical knowledge of environmental health hazards, survey techniques, and control and eradication methods, and may have been gained in work such as biological technician, medical technician, pest control technician, quality control positions with dairy or food service industries, or environmental health worker. Examples include: assisting with wastewater discharge permits and potable water monitoring in a laboratory, performing water sampling and consolidate data for analysis, maintaining laboratory operations and infrastructure within the laboratory, assisting in training staff in laboratory operations, assisting higher graded employee(s) in planning special projects related to laboratory requirements.
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the Environmental Health Technician, GS-09. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service that is directly related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes work that involved identifying, preventing, or eliminating health hazards in one or more areas of environmental sanitation. Such experience must have provided a practical knowledge of environmental health hazards, survey techniques, and control and eradication methods, and may have been gained in work such as biological technician, medical technician, pest control technician, quality control positions with dairy or food service industries, or environmental health worker. Examples of specialized experience include conducting wastewater discharge permits and potable water monitoring in an operational laboratory, data collection and analysis of water and wastewater sampling, maintaining laboratory operations and infrastructure within the laboratory, train staff in laboratory operations, assisting in planning special projects related to laboratory requirements.
 I have successfully completed two years of graduate study (36 semester hours or 54 quarter hours) concentrated in a field that is directly related to the work of this position such as health, agricultural, biological, physical sciences or other directly related subject matter. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your degree in your resume. If your degree was not in one of the directly-related fields listed in this response, you must submit a copy of your transcripts or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. We cannot determine eligibility without this information. An official copy of your transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected.
 I do not have the specialized experience described in 2A above, or the education described in 2B, but I possess a combination of the required experience and education. For example, I have six months of the specialized experience (50% of the experience requirement), and 27 semester hours of graduate study from an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education). Note: education in excess of the first year can be credited when combining education and experience. I have provided a copy of my transcripts or course listings as outlined on the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙