Position Title
Supervisory Transportation Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12959996-26-MH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


To qualify for this position, you must have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-7 level in the federal service, that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to this position to be filled. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to: (a.) Knowledge of VA laws, regulations, directives, policies, procedures, performance measures, and guidelines relating to VA Medical benefits administration, organizational structures, VA mission and goals, Privacy Act of 1974, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and working practical knowledge of applicable VHA regulation, station directives, Public Laws, State Laws, Central Office directives, and HIPAA regulations. (b.) Knowledge of extensive and diverse regulations governing a wide variety of passenger travel to decide, provide advice or performance other work, including knowledge of various travel policies, rules, and guidelines of national, state, and local origin governing the VTS program and passenger transport via, contracted vendors. (c.) Knowledge to deal effectively with problems, issues and situations which occur daily and maintain effective working relationships. (d.) Knowledge in consult management, scheduling, admissions, discharges, transfer, and administration with patient processing including diagnostic tests and studies, availability of these within the medical center, and procurement outside this medical center when not available at this facility or other VA facilities. (e.) Knowledge of the overall structure of electronic medical records. (f.) Knowledge of the Scheduling Package, Patient Care Encounters (PCE) Package, Consult Management processes, Advanced Clinic Access principles, in additions to the Veterans Transportation Service (VTS) program Package and its use in VISTA applications. (g.) Knowledge of the requirements of various transportation regulations or operations to monitor and report on carrier compliance with contract terms, safety provisions, or other transportation programs. (h.) Developing new or modified work methods, organizational structures, records and files, management processes, staffing patterns, procedures for administering program services. (i.) Skilled in Microsoft software and other software programs. (j.) Skilled in strong leadership and interpersonal skills.


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-7 level as listed above? Note: This experience must be supported by your resume to be creditable.

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience for the position. This experience is documented in my resume.
 No, I do not have the one year of specialized experience for the position.


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) Employer's Name Employer's City and State Job title (Federal/Military jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


2.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed demonstrates the KSAs for the grade(s).
 I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy and understand I will NOT be considered for this position.


You are required to provide your must current SF-50 that shows your grade, step. You are required to provide SF-50s that show your time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: (a.) Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or (b.) Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or (c.) SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


3.
I understand the requirement for providing the required SF50(s) for eligibility and time in grade.

 Yes, I have read and provided the required current SF-50 and SF-50s to support time in grade requirements.
 No, I did not provide the required SF50(s), and I understand I may not be referred.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙