Position Title
Audit Director- National Security
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
12957591-BSM-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current employee of the Department of Justice who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, confirm you meet all the following requirements:

•    You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
•    Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
•    Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You MUST also submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as:
•    A Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), AND 
•    A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND 
•    A copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action)


For more information, USAJOBS Help Center..
 Yes
 No


2.
Current OIG Employee - Are you a current permanent career or career-conditional, competitive status Department of Justice Office of Inspector General (OIG) employee?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit:

•    A copy of your most recent career or career-conditional SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), AND
•    A copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than your most recent SF-50), AND
•    If applying for a higher grade, a copy of an SF-50 which clearly demonstrates you meet the 52-week time-in-grade requirements (e.g., Promotion with an effective date more than one (1) year old, Within Grade Increase at the highest grade held, SF-50 at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one (1) year old).
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Philadelphia, PA


2.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.)1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-15  Individual Occupational Education Requirements

You must possess a degree in Auditing or in a related field such as Business Administration, Finance, Public Administration, or Accounting.

Additional related and accepted degrees include but are not limited to:

*Business-related: Communications/Public Relations, Economics, International Business/Studies, Management, Marketing, and Organizational Behavior/Psychology. *Government-related: Criminal Justice/Criminology; Diplomacy/International Policy, Affairs, or Relations; National/Homeland Security; Forensics; Government/History; Intelligence Analysis; Law/Legal Studies; Political Science; Public Management; Public Policy; and Security Policy. *Technically related: Computer Science, Cybersecurity, Engineering, Human Resources, Information Technology/Systems, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Languages/Linguistics, Logistics, Management Information Systems, Mathematics/Statistics/Data Science, Sciences (anthropology, biology, chemistry, etc.), and Supply Chain Management.

OR

 A combination of education and experience - at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.
 I have a degree in Auditing or in a related field such as Business Administration, Finance, Public Administration, Accounting, or one of the accepted degrees listed, OR
 I have a combination of education and experience - at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge AND a certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination, OR
 I have a combination of education and experience - at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge AND completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.
 No, I do not meet the positive education requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GS-15 Specialized Experience:

In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Education Requirement, applicants must meet at least one of the Specialized Experience requirements below: 

To qualify at the GS-15 level, applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience at least equivalent to a GS-14 position that is in or directly related to planning and conducting technically complex and comprehensive performance audits and reviews related to national security. Specialized experience at this level includes:
Comprehensive knowledge, understanding, and application of generally accepted government auditing standards as prescribed by the Government Accountability Office and Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government.
Experience in leading complex, multi-location (organization-wide) audits, evaluations, assessments, and/or reviews at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization responsible for national security oversight. This work includes clarifying project goals, obtaining stakeholder buy-in, setting and tracking key milestones, managing project risks, recommending appropriate project team members, reporting as appropriate to keep stakeholders involved, and meeting project completion milestones. (Your resume must reflect where, when, and how you gained this experience.)
Producing high-quality finished products and reports, preparing and presenting thorough briefings to high-level officials.
Identifying and assessing risk within national security-related programs, functional units, and organizations and conceptualizing well-researched, actionable audit proposals that address high-risk or critical matters expected to benefit from independent oversight.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙