Position Title
Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
313-13028940-26-ML-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

AREA OF CONSIDERATION CLARIFICATION - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Department of Veterans Affairs employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Veterans Service Representative with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time in grade requirement for Veterans Service Representative GS-0996-07/09/10.


1.

Time-in-Grade - GS-07: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-07 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-05 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


2.

Time-in-Grade - GS-09: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-09 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-07 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.

Time-in-Grade - GS-10: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-10 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select only one response.


4.
GS-07 Level:   Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as the interpretation or application of laws, regulations, or procedures to analyze evidence to make determinations and research routine issues to resolve discrepancies. Examples of experience include:
Using various computer systems for data entry and maintaining/monitoring case files
Applies use of federal laws when processing compensation and benefit claims for a state or federal agency, insurance company, worker's compensation, disability, retirement or pension program;
Determines basic employment qualifications and eligibility for benefit programs. OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education you must have:
One (1) full year of graduate level education. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position; OR
A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher). Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as defined above.
 I have a Bachelor's or equivalent degree, or one full years of graduate level education, and my education is directly related to the position. [You must provide supporting transcripts.]
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements required to qualify for this position.


5.
GS-09 Level:  Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as experience which required the interpretation of legal and medical documentation to determine the claimant's eligibility for services and benefits programs. Examples of specialized experience include:
Determining the eligibility for Federal or State-administered benefits, such as disability, education, housing, medical, and/or veterans' benefits;
Interpreting and applying Federal and State laws, including case law, existing statutes and procedures, and precedent rulings, to process claims pertaining to a service program;
Gathering and requesting evidence to build service program case files, respond to claimant inquires, and identify errors, inconsistencies, or omissions;
Explaining Federal or State claims decisions to claimants, special interest groups, dependents, and/or representatives in an effort to gain acceptance of the determination.; OR
Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education you must have:
A master's or equivalent graduate degree in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university; OR
2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or possession of an LL.B. or J.D degree, if related. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as defined above.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., and my education is directly related to the position. [You must provide supporting transcripts.]
 I do not have at least one full year of specialized experience (as described in A, above) or two full years (36 semester credits or 54 quarter hours) of graduate level education (as described in B, above). However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. [You must provide supporting transcripts.]
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements required to qualify for this position.


6.
GS-10 Grade Level: Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher. Specialized experience is that which demonstrates competence in adjudicating veterans' claims. Specialized experience is typically gained in positions that have involved the development, examination, investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for disability compensation, disability pension, death compensation, death pension benefits, life insurance benefits, etc. Such experience is to be substantive and relevant and requires a high degree of independence and judgment in the interpretation of more complex legal and medical documentation to determine claimant's eligibility and supporting evidence for services and benefits.

OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education you must have:
Two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as defined above.
 I possess two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. [Must submit copies of your transcripts.]
 I do not have at least one full year of specialized experience (as described in A, above) or two and a half years (45 semester credits hours) of graduate level education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (as described in B, above). However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. [Must submit copies of your transcripts.]
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements required to qualify for this position.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙