Position Title
Disclosure Enforcement Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13039142B-PGN-1801-12T13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AZ0052) 230 N First Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AB. (AZ7748) 4041 N CENTRAL AVE, Phoenix, AZ
 BB. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 BC. (CA0281) 1301 Clay Street, Oakland, CA
 BD. (CA0316) 333 W Broadway, San Diego, CA
 BE. (CA0154) 450 Golden Gate Ave, San Francisco, CA
 BF. (CO1656) 600 17th Street, Denver, CO
 BG. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 BH. (DC0198) 77 K Street NE, Washington, DC
 BI. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC
 BJ. (FL3285) 4210 Metro Pkwy, Fort Myers, FL
 BK. (FL0061) 51 SW First Avenue, Miami, FL
 BL. (FL3132) 201 S Orange Ave, Orlando, FL
 BM. (FL2437) 1248 N University Dr, Plantation, FL
 BN. (FL2402) 3848 West Columbus Drive, Tampa, FL
 BO. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 BP. (GA2004) 2888 Woodcock Blvd, Atlanta, GA
 BQ. (GA2480) 9 Park Of Commerce Blvd, Savannah, GA
 BR. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL
 BS. (IL2337) 2001 Butterfield Road, Downers Grove, IL
 BT. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BU. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Road, Indianapolis, IN
 BV. (IA0112) 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, IA
 BW. (KY2032) 333 Scott Street, Covington, KY
 BX. (KY3005) 300 Madison Ave, Covington, KY
 BY. (LA1336) 1555 Poydras Street, New Orleans, LA
 B. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 C. (MD0428) 100 S Charles, Baltimore, MD
 D. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 E. (MA0131) 15 New Sudbury Street, Boston, MA
 F. (MA0153) 10 Causeway, Boston, MA
 G. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 H. (MI2210) 3251 N Evergreen Dr NE, Grand Rapids, MI
 I. (MN1675) 1550 American Blvd East, Bloomington, MN
 J. (MN1600) 30 East Seventh Street, Saint Paul, MN
 K. (MO1937) 333 W. Pershing Road, Kansas City, MO
 L. (NV7516) 110 N City Parkway, Las Vegas, NV
 M. (NJ4555) 1 Newark Center, Newark, NJ
 N. (NJ5105) 50 West State Street, Trenton, NJ
 O. (NY7340) 130 S Elmwood Avenue, Buffalo, NY
 P. (NY7184) 5000 Corporate Drive, Holtsville, NY
 Q. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Avenue, Holtsville, NY
 R. (NY0350) 290 Bwy - Foley Square, New York, NY
 S. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Drive, Charlotte, NC
 T. (NC1151) 7751 Brier Creek Parkway, Raleigh, NC
 U. (OH0189) 550 Main Street, Cincinnati, OH
 V. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth Street, Cleveland, OH
 W. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 X. (OR6728) 100 SW Main Street, Portland, OR
 Y. (PA0809) 2970 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA
 Z. (PA0277) 600 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA
 AA. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA
 AC. (PR4062) 652 Avenida Luis Munoz Rivera, San Juan, PR
 AD. (RI7097) 380 Westminster St, Providence, RI
 AE. (SC0068) 1835 Assembly Street, Columbia, SC
 AF. (SC1149) 4400 Leeds Ave Suite 270, North Charleston, SC
 AG. (TN2709) 127 International Drive, Franklin, TN
 AH. (TN0076) 710 Locust St, Knoxville, TN
 AI. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 AJ. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce Street, Dallas, TX
 AK. (TX0284) 1100 Commerce Street, Dallas, TX
 AL. (TX0224) 819 Taylor Street, Fort Worth, TX
 AM. (TX3077) 5555 N BEACH ST, Fort Worth, TX
 AN. (TX0298) 1919 Smith, Houston, TX
 AO. (TX2298) 12941 I 45, Houston, TX
 AP. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AQ. (UT0035) 324 25th St, Ogden, UT
 AR. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 AS. (UT1430) 1973 N Rulon White Blvd, Ogden, UT
 AT. (UT1434) 105 23rd Street, Ogden, UT
 AU. (UT1431) 2484 S Washington Blvd, Ogden, UT
 AV. (UT1486) 2365 Lincoln Avenue, Ogden, UT
 AW. (UT1522) 178 South Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AX. (VA1608) 200 Granby Street, Norfolk, VA
 AY. (WA0101) 915 Second Avenue, Seattle, WA
 AZ. (WI1784) 1242 Fourier Drive, Madison, WI
 BA. (WI1720) 211 West Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


4.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


5.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


6.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


7.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


8.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


10.
What is your current position title?


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


13.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

QUALIFICATIONS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-12: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience applying the theories and fundamentals of the Federal tax system such as the U.S. Tax Code (particularly Subsection 6103), The Privacy Act, Internal Revenue Manual, and other tax related regulations.
Experience applying theories, principles, and techniques related to auditing and analysis, as well as investigative techniques regarding safeguarding information.
Experience communicating effectively, both orally and in writing, to share complex, sensitive information clearly with Federal, State, and local agencies.
Experience applying Federal information security requirements including Office of Management and Budget guidance, the Treasury Security Manual, and incident reporting requirements to protect sensitive information.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience applying the theories and fundamentals of the Federal tax system such as the U.S. Tax Code (particularly Subsection 6103), The Privacy Act, Internal Revenue Manual, and other tax related regulations.
Experience applying theories, principles, and techniques related to auditing and analysis, as well as investigative techniques regarding safeguarding information.
Experience applying communication methods and techniques to share complex, sensitive information clearly with Federal, State, and local agencies and partner with Government Liaison and Disclosure on cross-functional issues.
Experience applying Federal information security requirements including Office of Management and Budget guidance, the Treasury Security Manual, and incident reporting requirements to protect sensitive information.
Experience analyzing and evaluating all aspects of tax law, IRS policies, and procedures.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-12: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying the theories and fundamentals of the Federal tax system such as the U.S. Tax Code (particularly Subsection 6103), The Privacy Act, Internal Revenue Manual, and other tax related regulations?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying theories, principles, and techniques related to auditing and analysis, as well as investigative techniques regarding safeguarding information?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one (1) year of experience communicating effectively, both orally and in writing, to share complex, sensitive information clearly with Federal, State, and local agencies?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying Federal information security requirements including Office of Management and Budget guidance, the Treasury Security Manual, and incident reporting requirements to protect sensitive information?
 Yes
 No


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying the theories and fundamentals of the Federal tax system such as the U.S. Tax Code (particularly Subsection 6103), The Privacy Act, Internal Revenue Manual, and other tax related regulations?
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying theories, principles, and techniques related to auditing and analysis, as well as investigative techniques regarding safeguarding information?
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying communication methods and techniques to share complex, sensitive information clearly with Federal, State, and local agencies and partner with Government Liaison and Disclosure on cross-functional issues?
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have one (1) year of experience applying Federal information security requirements including Office of Management and Budget guidance, the Treasury Security Manual, and incident reporting requirements to protect sensitive information?
 Yes
 No


9.
Do you have one (1) year of experience analyzing and evaluating all aspects of tax law, IRS policies, and procedures?
 Yes
 No


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience in identifying emerging issues and developing a technical solution or strategy for addressing the issue?

 Conducted extensive research to determine all components of the emerging issue, developed multiple options for addressing the issue, developed an implementation plan for the solutions, and presented my recommendations to managers or executives.
 Researched the issue, identified several potential options, and referred the issue to my manager.
 Did not research the issue or identify potential solutions but referred the issue directly to my manager.
 None of the above


11.
How often have you used investigative skills in your current or prior position?

 An integral part
 Often but not an integral requirement
 On occasion, as needed
 Very rarely with managerial or Subject Matter Expert assistance
 Seldom, if ever


12.
Which of the following tasks have you completed when interacting with your customers?

 A. Identified, captured and assessed detailed stakeholder requirements/needs
 B. Researched and explained technical matters to facilitate problem resolutions
 C. Interpreted policies and procedures
 D. Developed or modified policies or procedures
 E. Coordinated and/or reviewed customer’s documentation submitted by other analysts
 F. None of the above


13.
Which statement best describes your experience in providing customer service?

 Anticipated and identified organizational needs based on my in depth understanding of customer business processes, and identify possible alternatives and solutions that result in improvements.
 Anticipated customer needs based on an understanding of business processes, identifying possible alternatives, and recommending solutions to resolve issues.
 Identified customer needs based on their requests, identifying possible alternatives, and recommending solutions to resolve issues.
 Responded to customer needs inquiries as directed by management.
 Have no experience in performing this task.


14.
Which of the following describes the customers with which you have interacted?

 A. Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers
 B. Senior or Front-line managers
 C. Co-workers, Technical experts, and/or Employees
 D. External (outside of your organization) customers, stakeholders, or oversight
 E. Contractor and Consulting teams
 F. Direct Reports on a team under my leadership
 G. My immediate supervisor
 H. None of the above


15.
Please select all that describe your experience communicating with internal and external audiences of stakeholders, customers, and user groups.
 A. Authored communications, briefings, and analysis documents for large programs or projects.
 B. Presented findings to oversight, governance and audit bodies.
 C. Authored reports and/or proposals on complex technical issues.
 D. None of the Above.


16.
Which of the following best describes your experience in an oversight role and/or in leading a senior level project?

 No education, training or experience in performing this task.
 Have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 Performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


17.
Which of the following best describes your experience in negotiating with management to accept and implement recommendations which involve a substantial use of resources?

 No education, training or experience in performing this task.
 Have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 Performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


18.
Select the types of research and analysis tasks you have completed.

 A. Researched and analyzed complex information, requests, and/or situations and presented findings
 B. Analyzed potential alternatives to issues and presented proposals for resolution
 C. Reviewed the findings of others and recommended potential alternatives for resolution of issues
 D. Researched and determined root causes of problems
 E. Analyzed discrepancies and gaps.
 F. None of the above


19.
Which of the following describe(s) your experience responding to time-sensitive action items?

 A. Identified problems, assessed the issues or challenges to meet deadlines and developed contingency plans
 B. Initiated and completed project activities and work products to meet competing deadlines
 C. Established priorities, set deadlines, and monitored status to ensure timely completion of multiple work activities with competing resources
 D. Responded to data calls or ad hoc requests for information
 E. Collected and compiled information for data call response or ad hoc requests including follow up activities or tasks
 F. None of the above


20.
Which of the following automation tools do have you experience using?

 A. Word processor (MS Word)
 B. Spreadsheet (MS Excel)
 C. Presentation software (MS Visio, MS Power Point)
 D. Project Scheduling (MS Project)
 E. Database Utility (MS Access)
 F. Collaboration software (MS SharePoint, MS Office Communicator)
 G. Web site development and support
 H. None of the above


21.
What is your level of experience with inventory management systems, such as ICS, RGS, EDIMS, AFOIA)

 Extensive experience with inventory management systems as a regular part of my job and I provide expert-level assistance and/or training to others.
 Experience with inventory management systems as a regular part of my job.
 Experience with inventory management systems under the direction from a senior employee or supervisor.
 Knowledge, but no experience with inventory management systems.
 No experience with inventory management systems.


22.
Which of the following describes your approach in a professional environment?
 A. Educator
 B. Investigator
 C. Self-directed/independent leader
 D. Team Member
 E. Mentor/ coach
 F. None of the above


23.
Which of the following best describes your experience in creating and maintaining professional relationships with high-ranking officials?
 No education, training or experience in performing this task.
 Have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job.
 Performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


24.
Which of the following best describes your role in dealing with customers who are upset or irate?
 Responsible for independently dealing with upset or irate customers, attempting to calm them, including those customers referred to me by lower-level coworkers or subordinates and train others to handle these situations.
 Responsible for independently dealing with upset or irate customers, attempting to calm them, including those customers referred to me by lower-level coworkers or subordinates.
 Attempt to calm upset or irate customers and resolve issues at my level and refer only when necessary.
 Terminate the call or refer my upset or irate customers to a higher-level coworker or supervisor.
 None of the above


25.
Which of the following describes your interpersonal skills in a group setting?
 Actively listen and participate in the discussion, asking pertinent and timely questions
 Listen to the discussion and provide input when directly asked.
 Listen to the discussion and do not contribute to the conversation.
 None of the above


26.
Which of the following verbal communication methods have you used to provide customer service?

 A. Authored and presented briefings to management
 B. Authored and presented briefings to cross-organizational team
 C. Facilitated meetings or conference calls that included formal agendas and meeting notes or minutes
 D. Interviewed key customers/stakeholders
 E. Contacted vendors to gather information (such as to clarify discrepancies, to negotiate and/or resolve issues, etc.)
 F. Represented your Business Unit at a cross-organizational meeting or conference call
 G. Independently briefed team on technical matters
 H. None of the above


27.
Which of the following best describes your experience developing and conducting oral presentations and/or briefings for executives, managers, and senior staff?
 Supervised performance of this task and/or trained others so they can perform this task or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without review by supervisor, manager or technical staff.
 Served as a subject matter expert and prepared documentation in support of oral presentations and/or briefings by a current or former executive or senior manager.
 I have no experience performing this task.


28.
Which of the following best describes your experience developing and conducting oral presentations for external stakeholders?
 Supervised performance of this task and/or trained others so they can perform this task or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without review by supervisor, manager or technical staff.
 Served as a subject matter expert and prepared documentation in support of oral presentations, meetings, and/or consultations briefings by a current or former executive or senior manager.
 I have no experience performing this task.


29.
Please describe your experience communicating with internal and external audiences of stakeholders, customers and user groups.

 A. Developed Executive and Senior Manager level communications, briefings, and analysis documents for enterprise wide applications, programs or projects
 B. Presented findings to oversight, governance and audit bodies.
 C. Authored reports and/or proposals on complex technical issues relating to enterprise wide applications, programs or projects.
 D. None of the Above.


30.
Which statement best describes your experience delivering technical presentations to internal and external stakeholders?
 Delivered formal presentations to high level executives, management officials, senior technical representatives, and/or professional groups to inform them on highly technical information.
 Delivered formal presentations to supervisors, technical representatives, and/or customers to inform them on highly technical information.
 Delivered formal presentations to workgroups and/or peers to inform them on highly technical information.
 Have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it in the job.
 I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. MAMC:


31.
In your communications or presentation experiences, which of the following represents the audience level?
 A. Industry professional conference attendees
 B. Executives in other government agencies
 C. Executives in other organizations
 D. Executives in my organization
 E. Managers in other government agencies
 F. Managers in other organizations
 G. Managers in my organization
 H. Peers in other government agencies
 I. Peers in other organizations
 J. Peers in my organization
 K. None of the above


32.
Choose the statement(s) that describes the verbal communication skills used as a regular part of your job.

 A. Interacting with internal and external customers.
 B. Describing rules, regulations, policies and procedures of a complex nature to audiences with varied knowledge levels.
 C. Making presentations and/or providing classroom training to audiences with varied knowledge levels.
 D. Briefing managers/executives outside my organization.
 E. Successfully negotiating with stakeholders and contractors to resolve issues.
 F. Interviewing staff or managers to acquire specific programmatic and or technical information.
 G. Persuading others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or partner in efforts
 H. Serving as a training instructor
 I. Conducting briefings with executive level management to review highly sensitive issues, findings, observations, etc. as a result of a site visit or audit.
 J. None of the above


33.
Which of the following best describes your experience interviewing customers, stakeholders, or taxpayers?

 Led and/or independently conducted interviews.
 Assisted others in conducting interviews.
 Observed others conducting interviews
 None of the above


34.
Which of the following best describes your experience when interacting with a new customer, stakeholder, or vendor?

 Thoroughly researched the new entity, identifying its mission, functions and programs through all available internal sources (IRS systems) and external sources (Internet), resulting in an in-depth understanding of the entity prior to interacting with the entity’s representatives.
 Researched the new entity, identifying its mission and gained a basic understanding of the entity prior to interacting with the entity’s representatives.
 Interfaced with the entity to learn its missions, functions, and programs.
 None of the above


35.
Which of the following describes your experience coordinating with other organizations or parts of your organization to accomplish a goal or project?
 A. Partnered with external organizations or agencies to accomplish a goal or project.
 B. Partnered with internal IRS organizations other than my organization to accomplish a goal or project.
 C. Partnered with different parts of my IRS organization to accomplish a goal or project.
 D. I have no experience coordinating with other organizations or with other parts of my organization to accomplish a goal or project.


36.
Which of the following best describes your experience with using analytical skills in problem solving?

 No experience in performing this task
 Limited experience in performing this task.
 Experience performing this task with minimal supervision or guidance.
 Extensive experience performing this task independently with no supervision.


37.
What is your level of experience identifying findings and recommending corrective actions to mitigate the associated risks?

 No experience performing this task.
 Participated on a team or worked with a coworker to complete this task.
 Performed this task with direction from a senior employee or supervisor.
 Independently performing this task as a regular part of my job
 Independently performing this task as a regular part of my job, and I am able to provide expert-level assistance and/or training to others.


38.
What is your level of experience in reading technical material and applying what is learned to specific situations?

 Extensive experience performing this task as a regular part of my job and able to provide expert-level assistance and/or training to others.
 Experience performing this task as a regular part of my job.
 Performed this task with direction from a senior employee or supervisor.
 No experience performing this task.


39.
Select the response that best characterizes how you have responded to project deadlines?

 A. Resolved inventory management issues in accordance with established guidelines
 B. Identified and notified my manager of inventory problems
 C. Identified and addressed complicated and unusual situations without manager intervention and made appropriate prioritization determinations.
 D. Worked assignments as prioritized by manager.
 E. None of the above


40.
Please select all that describe your technical and analytical experience.

 A. Experience reviewing and analyzing technical documentation for adequacy and accuracy.
 B. Experience advising on potential areas of controversy or conflict and overall technical soundness of proposals.
 C. Experience analyzing developments and determining the impact they will have on current projects and programs.
 D. Individual contributor to projects, programs and technical activities.
 E. None of the above


41.
Describe your experience evaluating compliance with federal laws, regulations, and legislation (e.g., the Internal Revenue Code, Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, etc).

 No education, training or experience in performing this task/competency.
 Educated and trained in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 Performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 Independently performed this task/competency as a regular part of job, without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 Supervised performance of this task/competency and/or trained others, and served as a subject matter.


42.
How familiar are you with the IRS confidentiality, disclosure, or safeguarding requirements?

 Extensive knowledge and experience with the application of the IRS confidentiality, disclosure, or safeguarding requirements.
 Knowledge and experience with the application of IRS confidentiality, disclosure, or safeguarding requirements.
 Limited knowledge and experience with the application of IRS confidentiality, disclosure, or safeguarding requirements.
 Completed the annual disclosure awareness training but do not routinely work with tax information and have no experience in the application of IRS confidentiality, disclosure, or safeguarding requirements.
 No knowledge or experience with the IRS confidentiality, disclosure, or safeguarding requirements.


43.
Which of the following describes your experience providing assistance to your co-workers?

 A. Taught and served as an on the job training (OJT) coach.
 B. Served as a subject matter expert for a project work group in completion of their task(s).
 C. Developed training materials or job aids.
 D. Served as a mentor to co-workers or employees outside my workgroup.
 E. Individually contributor and provide assistance to co-workers through my work products.
 F. None of the Above.


44.
Which best describes your experience as a leader of or member of a team?

 Providing leadership and assistance to team members while completing multiple, complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Providing assistance to team members while completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completing a complex assignment with defined deadline.
 None of the Above.


45.
What is your experience working on teams?
 A. Participated on external work team (outside of your immediate workgroup)
 B. Participated on internal work team (within your work group)
 C. Participated on nationwide, cross-organizational team
 D. None of the above


46.
What is your level of experience and education concerning physical security?

 I have no experience or training.
 I have on-the job training.
 I have working knowledge of the topic as part of my roles and responsibilities; which includes on-the-job and classroom training.
 I have been considered the Subject Matter Expert, which includes advanced training and/or certifications.


47.
What is your experience writing technical documentation independently?

 A. I have prepared documentation for executives, senior managers or management committees (for example, position paper, business case).
 B. I have developed documentation in support of a program or project.
 C. I have consolidated multiple technical documents into a single report.
 D. I have no experience with written technical documentation.


48.
What is your experience using correct English grammar, punctuation and spelling to communicate thoughts, ideas and information in writing?

 A. Completed standard forms or form letters without assistance from others.
 B. Composed routine correspondence involving basic information or using examples of similar documents. (For example, wrote e-mails requesting or providing information.)
 C. Composed documents that involved general information for limited distribution. (e.g., prepared meeting notes for management or wrote a paper for a class assignment)
 D. Drafted documents or out-going correspondence requiring specialized knowledge for review by senior staff, management or other higher-level audience. (e.g., drafted a memoranda on a technical area)
 E. Independently drafted documents or formal out-going correspondence containing complex technical information. (e.g., composed an original letter requiring knowledge of legal terminology or wrote a technical research paper for a college-level class assignment)
 F. None of the above


49.
Which of the following complex writing assignments have you completed?

 A. Written technical documents for "non-technical" co-workers or customers
 B. Written executive reports for major IT project
 C. Written operation instructions for co-workers or customers
 D. None of the above


50.
Select the response that most accurately describes your level of experience in fact finding and investigative techniques.
 I have no experience in this subject area.
 I have conducted research, gathered information, or conducted interviews.
 I have conducted research, gathered information, or conducted interviews. In addition, I have analyzed findings or used findings in problem solving efforts.
 I have conducted research, gathered information, or conducted interviews. In addition, I have used and analyzed findings to solve problems and/or to develop new techniques, methods, or procedures.
 I have conducted research, gathered information, or conducted interviews and analyzed findings in complex situations requiring deviation from standard protocols, requiring the development of alternative approaches. In addition, I have independently evaluated programs, policies, or procedures and made recommendations for improvement.


51.
Which of the following best describes your experience with interviewing external stakeholders and/or contractors?
 Interviewed to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information.
 Interviewed to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information and identified concerns requiring subsequent action(s).
 Interviewed to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information, identified concerns requiring subsequent action(s), and summarized in a written document.
 I do not have experience interviewing external stakeholders and/or contractors.


52.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙