Position Title
UH-60 FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR (SAFETY)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12938607-AR-26-455 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position requirements, education and experience (general and specialized) needed. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently a Traditional military member (Drill, ADSW, etc.) of the Montana Army National Guard, a BARGAINING UNIT Indefinite (Tenure 3) or an NTE (Tenure 0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee or a NON-BARGAINING UNIT (of any Tenure – 1/2/3/0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee; T5 applicants must be eligible for MT Army National Guard military membership and willing to join, if not currently a military member. (Area II)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

GS-13 Army National Guard Warrant Officer Positions - Must have a high school diploma or general education development (GED) diploma. An undergraduate degree from an accredited college/university is optimum.

Must have Federal Aviation Administration certifications awarded from accredited civilian aviation programs OR aviation certifications from accredited military aviation schools.

Do you you meet the Education AND Certification Requirements indicated above?

(Must submit Federal Aviation Administration certifications OR aviation certifications from accredited military aviation school with application)

 Yes
 No


3.
ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT:

Must have 1059 from Army school house (FT Rucker, WAATS, EAATS) showing completion of Instructor Pilot Course DA Form 759.

Do you meet this Additional Certification Requirement?

(Must submit 1059 showing completion of Instructor Pilot Course DA Form 759 with application to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


4.
REQUIRED GENERAL EXPERIENCE:

An applicant must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level.

Do you have the required general experience?

(MUST address these general experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


5.
REQUIRED SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:

Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for entry appointments to GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Warrant Officer positions. Qualification competencies are determined by three factors: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and the degree of hazard. For Army National Guard positions, must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, in military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Groups. To qualify, the applicant must have at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation. Experienced in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information. Experienced in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments. Experienced in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance. Competent in conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks. Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Knowledge is required in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures. Experienced in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives.

Do you have the required specialized experience?

(MUST address these specialized experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(CW2 - CW4)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


7.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/reinstatement?


8.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙