Position Title
Tax Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13016769P-TSN-501-11T13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the Taxpayer Services business unit.

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (GA0010) 2385 Chamblee Tucker Road, Chamblee, GA
 B. (PA0809) 2970 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA
 C. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA
 D. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 E. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce Street, Dallas, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


3.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


4.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


5.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


6.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


7.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


8.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


10.
What is your current position title?


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


13.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


QUALIIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-11: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience with IRS functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations of a complex all center operation to evaluate program plans and determine impact of changes on program goals;
Using cross-functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned program to conduct reviews of studies/projects;
Using analytical and evaluative methods in order to assess and measure effectiveness of program operations, identify gaps or conflicts in program information, consolidate findings and recommend alternatives;
Recognizing significant tax issues and enforcement changes that impact assigned programs in order to recommend changes in implementing regulations;
Experience with oral and written communications to conduct briefings, prepare reports, document findings and disseminate procedural and regulatory information.
OR A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
OR three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D.
OR equivalent doctoral degree in a related field of study,
OR LL.M., if related.
OR you may qualify by a combination of experience and education.

GS-12 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience with IRS functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations of a complex all center operation to evaluate program plans and determine impact of changes on program goals.
Using cross-functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned program to conduct reviews, studies/projects and coordinate systems and resource utilization of program operations.
Using analytical and evaluative methods in order to assess and measure effectiveness of program operations, identify gaps or conflicts in program information, consolidate findings and recommend alternatives.
Recognizing significant tax issues and enforcement changes that impact assigned programs in order to revise procedures or recommend changes in basic implementing regulations.
Using principles of management planning, program and process analysis, management reporting procedures and available system capabilities to resolve operating problems and providing statistical data or other management information reports.
Experience with oral and written communications to conduct briefings, prepare reports, document findings and disseminate procedural and regulatory information.
 
GS-13 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience with IRS functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations of a complex all center operation to evaluate program plans and determine impact of changes on program goals.
Using cross-functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned programs to conduct reviews, studies/projects, and coordinate systems and resource utilization of program operations.
Recognizing significant tax issues and enforcement changes in order to revise or recommend changes in basic implementing regulations.
Using a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods in order to develop new approaches to existing programs such as compliance, accounts management and/or taxpayer education and communication functions.
Using principles of management planning, program and process analysis to develop, design, and implement new or revised policies and procedures.
Experience in oral communication to present plans and proposals to individuals and groups, including top-level managers and field employees.
Experience in written communication to prepare comprehensive written reports, disseminate policy information, and document findings and conclusions.
Providing guidance and serving as a technical program and policy expert to be able to prepare complete packages, studies, and recommendations.


1.
GS-11: Which of the following best describes your specialized experience for this position?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a LL.M., if related
 I have a combination of experience and graduate education equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above


2.
GS-12: Which of the following best describes your specialized experience for this position?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one year of specialized experience as described above.


3.
GS-13: Which of the following best describes your specialized experience for this position?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one year of specialized experience as described above.


4.
Which of the following describes your experience with training others?
 A. Served as an On-the-Job Instructor (OJI)
 B. Delivered a lesson as part of a classroom or virtual training session
 C. Served as the formal instructor for a training session in a classroom or virtual setting
 D. Served as a train-the-trainer instructor
 E. None of the above


5.
Which of the following describes your contribution to the workplace?
 A. Developed methods to improve efficiency to share with workgroup or team
 B. Assisted in the development of procedures that were adopted as Best Practices
 C. Served on special projects (e.g., tax forums, task forces)
 D. Led a team or workgroup within my program area or Business Unit
 E. Led a team or workgroup composed of members from other program areas or Business Units
 F. Served on and coordinated the activities of a cross-functional team to resolve a service-wide issue
 G. None of the above


6.
Which of the following sources of information have you used to identify trends impacting work processes?
 A. Information provided by external sources (e.g., other Business Units, other Federal agencies, private business, State or Local governments, Senate hearing)
 B. Quality review results
 C. Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
 D. Data reports (e.g., productivity, inventory, fraud)
 E. None of the above


7.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience resolving technical/procedural issues?
 Identified and elevated a technical/procedural issue for resolution
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented within the Business unit
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented across Business units (e.g., W & I, SBSE, LB & I, etc.)
 None of the above


8.
Which of the following groups have you explained tax law and/or processes?
 A. Taxpayers over the telephone or in person
 B. External stakeholders (e.g., Certified Public Accountants, Power of Attorneys, other agencies)
 C. Internal stakeholders (e.g., other business units, coworkers, manager)
 D. Senior management or executive leadership
 E. None of the above


9.
Which of the following documents have you written?
 A. Taxpayer correspondence
 B. SERP feedback and/or Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) (including co-authored)
 C. System requirements (e.g., Unified Work Request [UWR])
 D. Publications (including co-authored)
 E. Technical guidance (e.g., FAQ, Job Aids, training materials)
 F. Policy statements
 G. White papers (e.g., briefing papers, proposals, decision documents)
 H. Draft communications on behalf of a senior manager or an Executive (e.g., TIGTA, GAO, Most Serious Problems [MSP])
 I. None of the above


10.
Which of the following describes your experience delivering presentations?
 A. Led meetings with representatives across business units.
 B. Briefed management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 C. Briefed external/cross functional stakeholders (e.g., other federal or state agencies) on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 D. Briefed executives/senior management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above


11.
In which of the following roles have you performed quality review?
 A. On the Job Instructor (OJI)
 B. Team lead/Senior
 C. Manager/Supervisor
 D. Program Analysis System (PAS) or National Quality Review System (NQRS)/Centralized Quality Review System (CQRS) Reviewer
 E. Program Reviewer
 F. Task Force Team Member
 G. None of the above


12.
Which of the following analysis activities have you performed?
 A. Evaluated progress towards or achievement of program goals
 B. Analyzed data for trends, rates, or anomalies
 C. Reviewed data/information to ensure consistency and compliance with established guidelines or requirements
 D. Assessed cost-efficiency/resource use
 E. Monitored information (e.g., case inventory, resource use, programs/systems changes)
 F. None of the above


13.
Which of the following best describes your experience working on projects?
 Served as a technical expert or team-member for a project
 Served as a coordinator of a process (e.g., statute coordinator)
 Served as sub-team lead of a project
 Managed a project
 Managed multiple projects simultaneously
 None of the above


14.
Which of the following computer applications or programs have you used to complete your work?
 A. Share Point to manage projects (e.g., assign tasks, share documents)
 B. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS) to research cases or review reports
 C. Lexis Nexis or Westlaw to research revenue procedures or case law
 D. Business Objects to retrieve data
 E. Control D to locate reports and retrieve data
 F. Arbortext to maintain and update Internal Revenue Manuals (IRMs)
 G. Work Request Management System (WRMS) to research, submit, or review work requests
 H. Microsoft Excel to create or edit pivot tables, formulas, or macros; perform statistical analysis; or import/export data
 I. None of the above


15.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙