Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Desk Officer) - Temporary Promotion
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
IMP-13021497-26-LDC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you meet the following criteria for Competitive Merit Promotion eligibility:
I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service To be eligible you must have least one year Time In Grade (TIG) at the next lower grade level, or higher, from the position to which you are applying.;
I am a former Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service.
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field--block 24--is "1" or "2"); and
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field--block 34--is "1")
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently or have you previously occupied a permanent position in which the full performance level (FPL) is equivalent to the FPL of the position being advertised?

i.e., to be eligible for NonCompetitive consideration to a position being advertised at the GS-09, with an FPL of a GS-12, you must have previously held one of the following:
GS-09 with an FPL of GS-12
GS-11 with an FPL of GS-12
GS-12 - 15
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status and full performance level. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field--block 24--is "1" or "2");
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field--block 34--is "1"); AND,
• full performance level (equivalent to the FPL of the position being advertised).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Norwalk, CA
 B. Sacramento, CA
 C. Lakewood, CO
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Atlanta, GA
 G. Lisle, IL
 H. Detroit, MI
 I. New York, NY
 J. Charlotte, NC
 K. Columbus, OH
 L. King of Prussia, PA
 M. Dallas, TX
 N. Houston, TX
 O. Federal Way, WA


Merit Plan Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Before applying, you are encouraged to thoroughly read the Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) for additional information regarding this vacancy. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. You must submit the required documentation to verify your eligibility as indicated. Failure to provide the required documents WILL render you ineligible for consideration.


1.
This vacancy is open only to current SBA, competitive service, career or career conditional employees. Please select the response that best applies to you.
 I am a current SBA, competitive service, career or career conditional employee. (You MUST submit an SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action, that reflects your current employment with the SBA, tenure "1" or "2" in block 24 and "1" in block 34 to support this response.
 I am not in this area of consideration.


2.
To qualify at the GS-14 level, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: independently plans, organizes, and prioritizes work related to: the application of a wide range of complex investigative concepts, techniques and practices in conducting criminal investigations; extensive knowledge in applying the U.S. Criminal Code, Attorney General Guidelines, and Agency investigative policy; experience in analyzing and tracing complex financial records; skill in written and oral communication, and the ability to analyze and evaluate program policies and make recommendations in order to further the organization's strategic objectives.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above. (Claimed experience must be supported by your resume.)
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.


TIME-IN-GRADE (TIG) RESTRICTIONS: Current or former Federal employees applying for advancement to a position above their current (or former) grade level must have completed a minimum of one year (52 weeks) in a position no more than one grade lower (or equivalent) than the position to be filled.


3.
Do you meet the TIG restrictions for advancement to a GS-14?
 Yes
 No
 This question is not applicable to me.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if my resume does not support or substantiate my responses to the assessment questionnaire, my application will be removed from consideration. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, my rating will be lowered, my job eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. An answer to this question is required.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙