Position Title
Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
FWS-DE-13013467-26-DSG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biologist, GS-0401-07 position located in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. Your responses must be supported by and documented in your resume.


Basic Requirements: This occupation has a specific individual occupational requirement. To support this requirement, you must submit a copy of your transcripts.


1.
From the description below, select the best response that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Biologist position, GS-0401.

 Successfully completed a bachelor's or higher in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 Combination of education and experience in courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the statements above.


Minimum Qualifications


2.
In addition to the basic requirement, you must also select the one response below that best describes how your experience or education meets the specialized experience requirements for the Biologist, GS-0401-07 position. If you do not meet these specialized experience requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level, or higher, in the Federal service. Specialized experience demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of a Biologist. Examples of specialized experience include: collecting basic data from field investigations and assessments concerning biological, chemical, and physical processes that affect ecosystems; conducting routine field experiments using established data-collection systems and extracting and analyzing data from these systems; assisting biologists of higher grade in studying and preparing reports on a wide variety of biological, ecological, pathological, public use data or other information pertinent to scientific studies; assisting in remote data-collection systems and participating in the analysis of data from these systems..  Experience equivalent to the GS-05 may be professional work at the developmental or trainee level. Lower graded technician/assistant work alone at the GS-05 grade level is not qualifying for this series. Resume should include GS level for federal positions. You must also include hours worked per week.
 Successfully completed one year of progressively higher-level graduate education from an accredited educational institution concentrated in a field that is directly related to the work of the position to be filled, such as in ecology, biology, zoology, botany, natural resource management; or other directly related subject matter. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester (27 quarter) hours should be considered an academic year of graduate study. You must provide transcripts that demonstrate graduate level coursework.
 I meet the requirements for Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.). I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and meet the requirements for S.A.A. based on (1) I am in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision based on completed courses; OR (2) I have a GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum, or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B+ or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in my major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR (3) I am a member in one of the national scholastic honor societies. Degree must be in a field that is directly related to the work of this position, such as in biology, ecology, environmental science, natural resource management, botany, chemistry, agriculture, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. You must provide transcripts.
 Equivalent combination of direct related graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. For example, I have six months of the specialized experience (50% of the experience requirement), and 9 semester hours or 14 quarter hours of appropriate directly related graduate education (50 percent of the education requirement).? The total percentage must equal at least 100%. You must provide transcripts that demonstrate graduate level coursework.
 I do not possess any of the requirements described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Incumbent will be required to operate a government-owned or leased motor vehicle in the performance of duties, therefore, a valid driver's license is required. Do you possess a valid State Driver's License?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙