Position Title
Laborer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12855571 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you willing and able to work an irregular work schedule which may include nights weekends and/or holidays?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you posses a valid driver's license from a U.S. state or an outlying territory
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing and able to work indoors and outdoors. Where you may be exposed to draft, noise, dust and dirt? With the possibility of bruising, muscle strains, cuts and scrapes.
 Yes
 No


4.
Knowledge of basic cleaning and janitorial techniques and procedures. (Must be documented on resume to get credit)
 Two plus years of documented knowledge of basic cleaning and janitorial techniques and procedures
 One to Two years of documented knowledge of basic cleaning and janitorial techniques and procedures
 One year of documented knowledge of basic cleaning and janitorial techniques and procedures
 Less than one year of documented knowledge of basic cleaning and janitorial techniques and procedures


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Are you at least 18 years old or older and have the ability to follow simple verbal and written instructions to carry out assigned duties independently?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙