Position Title
SUPPLY SYSTEMS ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12861737-AR-26-017 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 14, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
conditions of employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 & 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E5 - E8, WO1 - CW4 or O1 - O2?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E8.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O2.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1 - O2
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field, & experience using computer and automation systems?

 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc. Experience involving the control of supply stocks and accounting for equipment. Knowledge of supply functions, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Experience in cost estimates, budgets, or funding management. Experience conducting extensive searches for required information; reconstruct records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support. Experience requiring person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience managing a retail supply operation using a system like the Standard Army Management Information System (STAMIS). Please walk through a specific example where you analyzed supply directives to formulate and implement a new operating procedure that resulted in improved logistical support.


4.
This role involves analyzing trends and overseeing budget estimates. Describe your experience in analyzing operational effectiveness to improve undesirable conditions, enhance accountability, or manage resources. How did your analysis impact budget estimates or the maintenance of fund accounts for your branch?


5.

Provide an example of a time you conducted a comprehensive analysis or study of a logistical program. What was the identified problem or deficiency, what were your recommendations, and what were the results of implementing those changes?



6.

Describe a time you were responsible for interpreting a complex supply directive to create or update an operating procedure. What was the directive, how did you analyze it, and what specific steps did you take to implement the new procedure to ensure optimal logistical support?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙