Position Title
AUDITOR (PERFORMANCE)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-13066652-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current U.S. Citizen applying for this vacancy?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Military Retiree within 180 days following your official retirement date? .
 Yes
 No


5.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


6.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


14.
Where did you learn about the DCSA position for which you are applying?
Campus event (in-person or virtual)
In-person hiring event
Virtual hiring event
DCSA website
USAJobs job search
USAJobs saved search email notification
DCSA employee
LinkedIn job posting
DCSA LinkedIn social media post
Recruiter LinkedIn post
Facebook post
X post
Handshake post
School job announcement
Professional organization
Conference career fair
Contacted by a Recruiter
Other


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Meade, MD
 B. Boyers, PA


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the response option that BEST describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for this position.

 Degree: auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting.
 Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have specialized experience sufficient to demonstrate that I have acquired all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-12) in the Federal service and am prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience developing and applying auditing techniques and methodologies; experience developing risk assessments, audit plans, and internal control reviews to identify the most significant internal control improvements; experience with government programs and their governing statutes, regulations, and practices sufficient to perform audit assignments using auditing methods and techniques such as Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS); experience performing special audit assignments, researching directives, laws, regulations and operating instructions of an organizational function or system, verifying appropriateness of charges, performing analysis of information and preparing audit working papers; experience preparing an outline of problems identified in working papers with the assistance of a supervisor; skill in planning and carrying out routine work, making minor adaptations to procedures and accepted practices related to performance audits; proficiency in preparing and submitting official reports, correspondence and complete and adequate working papers; experience participating in inspections and reviewing fiscal and related accounts to determine compliance; demonstrated experience reviewing and examining program related documents such as contracts, purchase orders, and collection procedures; preparing accurate and complete reports of completed reviews; interviewing employees, managers, and other officials involved with a program, activity or function being reviewed, engaging with agency officials at varying levels during all phases of an assessment; providing advice, guidance, assistance, and direction to lower-grade auditors in the unit; reviewing work or reports of junior staff to ensure it includes evidence to support findings; and preparing and presenting reports, briefings, and testimony that cover management issues.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


3.
Please describe your experience conducting performance audits to assess compliance, economy and efficiency, and/or program results. Specifically mention if performance audits complied with generally accepted auditing standards. *Simply stating you have the experience at a particular job and the dates, or stating "see resume", are not appropriate responses.*



4.
Please describe your experience analyzing and reconciling information to produce required audit reports; and your knowledge of the principles of audit findings. Specifically mention if this experience was in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS). *Simply stating you have the experience at a particular job and the dates, or stating "see resume", are not appropriate responses.*



5.
Please describe your experience maintaining effective relationships with clients, customers, and audited entities from varied backgrounds to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations. *Simply stating you have the experience at a particular job and the dates, or stating "see resume", are not appropriate responses.*



6.
Please describe your experience with providing advise, direction, or guidance to coworkers or other staff. *Simply stating you have the experience at a particular job and the dates, or stating "see resume", are not appropriate responses.*



7.
Please describe your experience with computers, software applications, databases, and automated systems; specifically, addressing how you use them to accomplish audit work. *Simply stating you have the experience at a particular job and the dates, or stating "see resume", are not appropriate responses.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙