Position Title
Chief Investment Officer
Agency
Department of Energy - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
26-EDF-00091-12849233-ES Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please list the title, agency, and dates of this appointment. Please note you will be required to provide proof to meet OPM Approval of your appointment if selected.


3.
Have you ever served in any additional Political Appointments or Non-career SES Appointments in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments


5.
Please select the response that best fits your current status
 I am an SESCDP Graduate, QRB certified
 I am a career SES, QRB certified and currently serving in an SES probationary period
 I am a career SES, QRB certified, and have successfully completed my SES probation
 I am a former career SES and am reinstatement eligible (QRB certified and successful SES probation completion)
 I am a former career SES, QRB certified, but separated from the SES (for reasons other than performance or conduct) prior to completing my SES probation
 None of the above or other, such as Non-Career SES or Career SES at an Excepted Service Agency not covered by Title V (FBI, DEA, CIA, ODNI, DIA, NGA, NSA, Title X DoD Intel).


6.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


7.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 Yes
 No


8.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


9.
This position requires the incumbent to submit a Public Financial Disclosure Statement, OGE-278, Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Report upon entering the position and annually (5CFR Part 2634, Subpart B). Are you willing to comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


10.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis:
 A. AD - Administratively Determined
 B. EJ – Department of Energy Organization Act
 C. EK - National Defense Authorization Act of 1995
 D. EN - NNSA Excepted Service
 E. ES - Senior Executive Service
 F. GS - General Schedule
 G. WB / WG - Federal Wage System
 H. BB / BS / BL – Negotiated Pay for BPA Employees
 I. Other
 J. Not applicable – I have never been a federal employee


11.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you currently receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for FERS or CSRS service as a retired U.S. Federal civilian employee?
 Yes, I understand that if selected I will need to provide a copy of my annuitant statement from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and my salary may be reduced by the amount of my annuity.
 No, I am not a Federal annuitant.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙