Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Defense Microelectronics Activity
Announcement Number
DMEA-26-13079821-DH
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 22, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? -OR- Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? -OR- Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 McClellan, CA
 Fort Belvoir, VA
2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?* NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO .
 Yes
 No
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
5.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
DMEA, JX15045, Budget Analyst, NH-0560-03
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for the position of Budget Analyst, NH-0560-03. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-02 or GS-11 equivalent or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Examples of creditable specialized experience include: Executing complex reimbursable programs and agreements, reimbursable financial management principles, appropriations, support agreements, and cost recovery methodologies; Analyzing financial data, identifying trends and discrepancies, evaluating risks, and developing recommendations to support sound financial management and organizational decision-making; Resolving complex funding and reimbursement issues, ensuring compliance with Federal fiscal law and financial management regulations; Establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with internal and external stakeholders; Communicating complex financial information written and orally.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
