Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Computed Tomography)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13007522-26-YE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the ARRT and certification by the ARRT in radiology? Note, transcript or educational documentation must be submitted.
 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019 and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019, to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


3.
Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R)?Note: Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.
 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019 and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.) C
 No


4.
Are you certified in computed tomography (CT) by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT)?
Note: Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.
 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


DRTs perform procedures and examinations in hospitals or clinics under the direction of radiologists and other medical officers. The objective of the examinations and procedures is to produce radiographic studies that are used in medical diagnosis and interpreted by medical officers to locate injuries, foreign bodies, pathological conditions, or lesions within the body. They prepare and administer contrast media and medications in accordance with State and Federal regulations. All DRTs must be knowledgeable in computerized and digital radiography (CR/DR), and picture archiving and communications systems (PACS). This specialty modality requires specific knowledge of cross-sectional human anatomy and its application in spiral, and/or, multi-slice computer tomography, inclusive of 3-D reconstruction scans, including drainages, biopsies, and peripheral vascular examinations. The technologist requires specific knowledge and training in the location, appearance, and function of the various major and minor systems susceptible to radiological illumination; to interpret the examination request accurately; to understand the functioning and interrelationship of the various organs; to use the methods and techniques which will identify organs appearing on the digital display monitor, or on film, and the various stages of the examination to judge the acceptability of the image and/or scan for diagnostic use and to emphasize the aspects of interest to the physician. [DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require advanced ARRT certification.] DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require advanced ARRT (MR) certification.


5.
Do you possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-8), which is directly related to the position to be filled? Employees at this level are fully functional as an advanced DRT and carry out their assigned tasks independently. DRTs at this level may have varying assignments including special and complex imaging procedures beyond the full performance level, clinical instruction, and basic QM type duties within the program.

In addition to the above, your experience, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*)

*Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.

Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers.

*Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.

Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography.

Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions.

Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙