Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC-TITLE 32
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-12968871-AR-26-120 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AOC
1.
What is your current military grade?
E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
O-1
O-2
O-3
O-4
O-5
O-6
O-7
O-8


2.
Are you a current federal employee/technician within Kentucky Army National Guard (T32 and T5, with permanent, conditional or indefinite tenure w/current Kentucky Army National Guard membership)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions to the best of your knowldedge and ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and is able to use common tools and equipment in the line of work?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 18 months experience diagnosing, repairing, overhauling, and modifying more complex vehicles, equipment, and more complicated systems?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have 18 months experience applying independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have 18 months experienced in testing, inspecting, and evaluating the work performed on vehicles, equipment and systems?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provide in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001): my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙