Position Title
Case Manager (Attorney)
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
EX-26-047-JLM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


2.
All applicants must possess a first professional law degree: J.D. or LLM from an American Bar Association Law School, or equivalent training. Equivalent training is that training permitted in some states in lieu of attendance at a law school. To be acceptable, this training must be of the kind and nature required by the state in which the bar exam is taken. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes, I possess a first professional law degree, or equivalent training as listed above
 No, I do not meet the education as listed above


3.
All applicants must be admitted to the Bar to practice law in a state, or commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, and are required to attach a copy of your Bar license as proof of the same. Do you meet this requirement and have you attached proof of the same?

 Yes, I am admitted to the Bar to practice law in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, and I have attached a copy of the same to my application.
 No, I do not meet the requirements as listed above.


4.
To qualify for the GS-9, you must have: 1) Possession of the first professional law degree: J.D. or LLM from an American Bar Association law school, or equivalent training. Equivalent training is training permitted in some states in lieu of attendance at a law school. To be acceptable, this training must be of the kind and nature required by the state in which the bar exam is taken. To prove possession of the same, you are required to submit a copy of your transcript as part of your application package and (2) Admission to the Bar to practice law in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

 Yes, I possess the required education and Bar membership as specified above.
 No, I do not possess the education and/or Bar membership as specified abov


5.
To Qualify for the GS-11, In addition to the GS-9 requirements above, you must have the following: at least one year of significant experience relevant to the work of this position which includes case management responsibilities such as: reviewing legal documents in electronic case management systems and providing guidance on compliance with Commission or other regulatory filing requirements, including identification of sensitive or confidential information; serving as a central point of contact for supervisors and other internal offices to provide proper guidance in complex filing scenarios; drafting legal memoranda for purposes of detailing discreet incidents or making recommendations to senior officials; extensive legal document analysis skills used to maintain investigation data for office use and for distribution via electronic docketing systems; independently communicating with internal and external customers to resolve technical filing issues.

 Yes, I possess at least one of the requirements listed above, and have provided proof of the same.
 No, I do not meet the requirements as listed for the grade 11 level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understanding that responding 'NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙