Position Title
Industry Office Chief
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
26-IN-12939901-MJB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 I am an external candidate, and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, I will be permitted to provide an updated comprehensive resume to determine salary. If an updated resume is not provided within 3 days of being notified of your selection, pay will be established based on the resume submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.


2.
How did you hear about this position?
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)


3.
Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:


4.
I affirm that my application and all supporting documentation requested by the Securities and Exchange Commission was not created using Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)) tools. I am aware that any misrepresentation of my education, training or experience can lead to my disqualification of the hiring process.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Industry Office Chief, SK-0510-17 position within the Division of Corporate Finance at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Are you a current permanent or conditional, competitive service employee assigned to the Division of Corporation Finance within the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure and block 34 for "Position Occupied" of your latest Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how you meet the basic requirement for the position.
 I have a degree in accounting.
 I have a degree in a related field, such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included, or was supplemented by, 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing, of which no more than 6 semester hours were in business law.
 I completed 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses, of which no more than 6 semester hours were in business law; AND least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge.
 I am a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; AND least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge.
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 My level of education and/or experience is not described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as an Industry Office Chief, SK-510-17.  All of these tasks are completed with a minimum of supervisory oversight.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14 level: Developing policy for an organization related to the securities industry.
 I do not have the experience as described above and therefore am ineligible for the position.


4.
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as an Industry Office Chief, SK-510-17.  All of these tasks are completed with a minimum of supervisory oversight.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14 level: Serving as a senior accounting adviser, providing program direction, technical leadership, and oversight to the activities of the accounting and auditing phases of a program.
 I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.


5.
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as an Industry Office Chief, SK-510-17.  All of these tasks are completed with a minimum of supervisory oversight.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14: Preparing or reviewing public company financial statements and SEC filings and applying Regulations S-X and S-K, GAAP and related interpretations, or interpretive accounting and financial reporting releases of the SEC to resolving complex or novel financial reporting issues.
 I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙