Position Title
Supervisory Information Technology Specialist (Policy and Planning)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12885868-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position requires the selectee to meet certain conditions of employment. Please provide yes or no responses to the following questions.


1.

This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a Top Secret Security Clearance. If selected, I am willing to obtain and maintain a Secret Security Clearance.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position may require the incumbent to be recalled after normal duty hours, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, year round. If selected for this position I am willing to provide on-call support responsibilities 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, year round.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is a Testing Designated position subject to applicant testing and random drug testing. You will be required to sign a DA Form 5019 requiring participation in random drug urinalysis testing. If selected I am willing to sign a DA Form 5019, and participate in pre-employment drug urinalysis testing and random testing thereafter as required.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Information Technology Specialist (Policy and Planning) position with Department of Defense Education Activity. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Information Technology Specialist (Policy and Planning) at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Leading formulation of IT strategic vision, goals, and operational directives for a large, geographically dispersed enterprise, including the development and implementation of technology policies and long-term resource management plans. Directing operations of a complex IT enterprise, overseeing critical functions such as data center and network operations, software deployment, global customer support services, and cybersecurity controls to ensure system reliability, availability, and scalability. Serving as a senior technical authority and consultant to senior leadership, providing expert advice on enterprise architecture, infrastructure modernization, and system development, while representing an organization or agency in high level meetings. Supervising a diverse workforce including planning work, setting priorities for the workforce, developing performance standards, evaluating work, interviewing and selecting candidates, and managing employee development and training. Leading information technology innovation and modernization efforts by evaluating cutting-edge technologies and directing the implementation of new technological solutions to advance organizational needs and strategic initiatives.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙