Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12911715-AR-26-056 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E5 - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E5 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfuly and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses experience, education, or training in administrative, professional, investigative, technical or other responsible work which demonstrates analytical ability and a practical and theoretical knowledge of the functions, processes and principles of management. Experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience in which provided a working knowledge of the National Guard organizational structures, functions, procedures, and techniques. Experience analyzing, interpreting and developing policies and procedures of local management?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a time when you were responsible for evaluating a program or process to determine its effectiveness. Explain the steps you took to develop your evaluation, how you analyzed the results, and what your recommendations were. How did your analysis and recommendations lead to measurable improvements in the program's efficiency or outcomes?


4.
Detail your experience in evaluating property management functions. Describe a specific instance where you analyzed administrative audits, investigation reports (like FLIPLs), or program reviews to identify trends in property accountability. What were the trends you identified, what corrective actions did you recommend, and what was the outcome of your recommendations?


5.
Provide an example of a time you used statistical analysis and physical inventories to identify and resolve discrepancies in supplies or equipment. Explain the analytical techniques you applied, how you investigated the root causes of the discrepancies, and what cost analysis you performed regarding your findings. What was the result of your actions?


6.
Tell us about a time when you had to provide a critical assessment of an organization's logistical operations to senior leadership (such as a Supervisor, Commander, G4, or Command Staff). How did you interpret complex regulations to form your assessment, and how did you communicate your objective findings and recommendations to these key stakeholders to help them direct program improvements?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙