Position Title
IT Cybersecurity Specialist (Sys Admin)
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
DE-13016228-26-NZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes the experience that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience in order to be found qualified.


1.
Applicants must have specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform in this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).
 I have at least one year (12 months) of full-time specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing the following duties: 1) Providing technical advice, guidance, and assistance on critical IT security issues; 2) Managing a secure IT program consistent with organizational guidelines and standards; and 3) Applying knowledge of the principles, methods, or tools to develop, schedule, coordinate, and manage projects and resources, such as monitoring and inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance. (NOTE: Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience.)
 I do not possess the specialized experience as listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Information Technology (IT) Management Series 2210.
 I have Information Technology related experience demonstrating each of the following required competencies, and meet or exceed the minimum proficiency level for each: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Decision Making, Information Management, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Problem Solving, Teamwork, Technical Competence. (You must support this experience in your resume) Please refer to the job announcement for definitions and further details on each competency listed and the minimum proficiency levels required.
 I do not fully meet the competency requirements outlined above but I am nonetheless demonstrably well qualified to perform the work of this position. I have appropriate licensure, registration, certification (Examples include: PMP, ITIL, Agile, AWS, CompTIA A+, CompTIASecurity, Microsoft Solutions Architect Expert, CISSP, Networking, AI Governance Professional). You must provide copies of licensure, registration, certification.
 I do not fully meet the competency requirements outlined above but I am nonetheless demonstrably well qualified to perform the work of this position. I have a substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrates eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field. You must provide examples such as published works, industry keynotes, peer research, awards, board memberships, etc.
 I do not have any of the Information Technology related experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙