Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC LEADER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12894204-AR-26-112 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) full-time Dual Status Army National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1 or 2). 

Lateral requests must be a current full-time Tennessee National Guard PERMANENT (Tenure 1 or Tenure 2) on-board employee, in the same occupational series, same pay grade or higher and meet the qualification requirements for the position blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and can use common tools and equipment in the line of work?

 Yes
 No


2.
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you have 24 months of experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, and lead the work of others in fields directly related the repair function of this occupational series; experience and ability to perform administrative functions; to read and interpret a variety of technical publications used in the repair of supported equipment; experience and ability to provide guidance to others in work related directly to this occupational series?
 Yes
 No


3.
How do you prioritize maintenance tasks when faced with multiple urgent requests?


4.
How do you ensure that safety regulations are followed by your team members?


5.
How do you determine if a piece of equipment should be repaired or replaced?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙