Position Title
Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12944021-26-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


5.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Health Administration (VHA).  The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist). The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-6. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-5 to GS-6.

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:

GS-5
Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.

GS-6
Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Education and/or Experience: Please select the statement below that best describes your experience to meet the basic requirement.
 Experience. I completed the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists.
 Education: I have successfully completed two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas. (Transcripts Required)
 I am a current VA employee eligible under the grandfathering provisions and do not meet the descriptions listed above.
 I do not meet either of these options.


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding your education. Otherwise list N/A.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Licensure or Registration. Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your licensure. Otherwise, indicate N/A.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Date of issuance:
Expiration date:


3.
Board Certification: Are you certified by the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS)? Please attach copy with your application.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 I am not certified, but I would be eligible for a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Technician (HIS).
 No


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding your certificate:
Certificate type:
Complete certificate number:
Date of issuance:
Expiration date (if applicable):


4.
GS-5 Grade Determination: I meet the basic requirements and the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
- Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
- Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
- Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
- Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
- Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
- Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-6 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements, I have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-5). Specialized experience includes performing non-diagnostic otoscopy including proper bracing techniques and making appropriate referrals for abnormalities and cerumen management; rechecking air-conduction pure tone threshold testing to assist the audiologist in modifying the treatment plan during hearing aid repair appointments; providing patient care in hearing aid repair appointments, consistent with the audiologist's treatment plan; completing visual and auditory checks with listening stethoscope of hearing aids prior to and following repair of device (troubleshoots performance); processing incoming devices from patients with concerns related to their hearing aids or hearing assistive technology; preparing and charging (if required) hearing aids and assistive devices for delivery; receiving devices and restoring settings of hearing aid/hearing assistive technology after repair or replacement from manufacturer, such as Denver Logistics Center (DLC); and maintaining proper levels of mailing/shipping supplies. The Health Technician (HIS) adheres to the audiology clinic policy and standard operating procedures for infection control and cleaning, sterilization and disposition of reusable medical equipment (RME). The Health Technician (HIS) completes documentation per medical center policy for timeliness for each episode of care and codes procedures as appropriate in the patient record in preparation for co-signature by the audiologist. The Health Technician (HIS) provides instruction to patients, family and staff on device topics including but not limited to hearing aid and hearing assistive technology care, maintenance, use and operation. The Health Technician (HIS) receives and completes incoming communications from Veterans (electronic and telephone), and facilitates follow-up based on audiologist's treatment plan to include ordering supplies through DLC.

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Driver's License: A current, state issued driver's license is required for this position. Note: We cannot accept photographs, therefore do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state issued driver's license. A pre-placement examination will be required to be able to determine if the incumbent is able to safely operate a Government Vehicle.
 Yes
 No


6a.
Please provide your driver’s information. Reminder: Do not include a copy of your license.
Issuing State:
License number:
Expiration date:


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicants claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
                                                                                                                                                                                                           
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙