Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (SAC)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12951379-HQ-PW-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service?

Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boston, MA
 B. Portsmouth, VA


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service or private sector which includes: Providing expert advice and guidance to subordinate employees on Coast Guard Investigative Service (CGIS) operations AND conducting or overseeing the conduct of highly sensitive criminal investigations or law enforcement operations AND planning work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjust short-term priorities, and prepare schedules for completion of work AND developing innovative methods to implement changes made to specific program policies and address specific issues, overlaps, gaps, and/or discrepancies.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙