Position Title
Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic (Forklift Operator)-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-580310-12938536-SEC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to May 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC, WG-5803-10, positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your ability to perform the duties of this position, HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC, WG-5803-10, without more than normal supervision. (For a complete description of the required duties, see the DUTIES section of this announcement). Due to the use of 120-day rosters, this period of experience may be completed within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 I do not have experience in this line of work.
 I have vocational training in this field, or I have completed an apprenticeship.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC, WG-5803-10, under close supervision. I have limited experience and knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of heavy mobile equipment systems, assemblies, and parts, including such major systems as diesel, multifuel, and gasoline engines (including supercharged and turbocharged engines), turbine engines, transmissions and gear reduction systems (including those with torque converters, planetary gears, and power take offs), drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems. This type of work has only been completed under close supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC, WG-5803-10, under limited supervision. I have the experience and knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of heavy mobile equipment systems, assemblies, and parts, including such major systems as diesel, multifuel, and gasoline engines (including supercharged and turbocharged engines), turbine engines, transmissions and gear reduction systems (including those with torque converters, planetary gears, and power take offs), drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems; knowledge in the repair of hydraulic, lifting, loading, turning and positioning systems including mechanical, hydraulic, electrical, and electronic controls. On routine assignments, I perform work independently.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC, WG-5803-10, and I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise, ability to work independently and knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of heavy mobile equipment systems, assemblies, and parts, including such major systems as diesel, multifuel, and gasoline engines (including supercharged and turbocharged engines), turbine engines, transmissions and gear reduction systems (including those with torque converters, planetary gears, and power take offs), drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems; knowledge in the repair of hydraulic, lifting, loading, turning and positioning systems including mechanical, hydraulic, electrical, and electronic controls; ability to select, interpret, and apply repair manuals, technical orders, specifications, schematics, engineering drawings, safety manuals, and other such guides. I am considered an expert in this field.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙