Position Title
Construction Control Representative
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12903676-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more OR
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, as follows:

• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of discharge; member 4 copy of the DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); AND
• A copy of a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, dated 1991 or later, certifying an OVERALL Service Connected Disability of 30% or more; OR
• DD Form 214, which reflects the character of service of "Retirement-Disability"; OR
• Certification document* which reflects your OVERALL service connected disability of 30% or more.
• The Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference is optional at the time of application.

The "certification" letter is a written document on an official letterhead of the appropriate military branch in which the veteran served, and contains at a minimum, the service member's: (1) military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; (2) expected character of service (i.e. honorable); (3) rank; and (4) type of discharge. The "certification" must be signed by, or by direction of, the adjutant, military personnel officer, or commander of the service member's unit or higher headquarters. The service member's military service dates are necessary in order to determine whether he or she meets the definition of ''veteran'' under 5 U.S.C. 2108(1) (Federal Register, 2016).

Useful Links

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.
You can obtain a copy of your DD-214 from the National Archives.
Standard Form (SF) 15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Veterans Employment
U.S. Department of Labor's Veterans' Preference Advisor

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a 30% or more Disabled Veteran?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


7.
People with Disabilities, Schedule A

You are eligible for this appointing authority if you are an individual:
with an intellectual disability; OR
a severe physical disability; OR
a psychiatric impairment; AND
you have acceptable proof of the disability.
Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility (e.g., records, statements, or other appropriate information) issued by:
a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or,
a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or,
a Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
**Note: An agency may make permanent or time-limited appointments under this appointing authority.

For more information please go to OPM's website on Federal Employment of People with Disabilities.

Are you eligible under a Schedule A, Persons with Disability appointment?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bossier City, LA
 B. Fort Polk, LA
 C. Corpus Christi, TX
 D. Edinburg, TX
 E. Fort Bliss, TX
 F. Fort Hood, TX
 G. McAllen, TX
 H. Red River Army Depot, TX
 I. San Antonio, TX


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Construction Control Representative, GS-0809-12 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Construction Control Representative at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 2 out of the 3 following duties: I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 2 out of the 3 following duties: 1. Monitor major civil and military projects such as conventional buildings of all types (dormitories, mess halls, buildings, etc.); AND 2. Ensure construction projects are performed in accordance with contract plans and specifications; AND/OR 3) Resolve contracting issues with contractors, engineers, and staff.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position. ________________________________________


1.
During a routine inspection of a civil works project, you notice that the contractor is using a construction method that differs slightly from the one specified in the contract. The method appears to be achieving the same results. What is your most appropriate course of action?

 Immediately instruct the contractor to revert to the method specified in the contract without further investigation.
 Document the observed method, assess its effectiveness and compliance with project requirements, and consult with the project engineer (PE), COR, and ACO.
 Approve the new method on the spot without consulting any other parties or documenting the change.
 Ignore the difference in methods as long as the end result appears to meet project specifications.
 Allow the contractor to continue using the alternative method, but request a formal written explanation and justification for the change.


2.
A contractor has submitted a Request for Information (RFI) to deviate from the specifications and use a new type of insulation material in a military facility construction project. The material is not explicitly listed in the original specifications but claims to offer superior performance. How should you approach this situation?

 Immediately recommend approval of the RFI and request a submittal for formal review and approval by the PDT.
 Recommend approval of the RFI and use of the new material based solely on the contractor's claims of superior performance without further investigation.
 Review the material's specifications against the contract specifications, consult with the Project Delivery Team (PDT), and evaluate its compliance with building codes before making a recommendation to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR)/Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) in response of the RFI.
 Suggest that the contractor secretly use the new material without formal approval to avoid bureaucratic delays.
 Recommend rejection of the materials in response to the RFI, insisting on using only materials explicitly listed in the original specifications.


3.
You are inspecting a recently completed section of a civil works project. While the work generally meets contract specifications, you notice minor deviations in workmanship that don't significantly impact the structure's integrity or functionality. What is the most appropriate action to take?

 Accept the work without comment, assuming that minor deviations are normal and not worth addressing and is covered by warranty.
 Accept the work conditionally with COR/ACO approval, noting the minor deviations in your report and requiring the contractor to address them in future sections of the project.
 Reject the entire section of work and demand that the contractor redo it to exactly match the specifications, regardless of the deviation's impact.
 Document the deviations in detail, discuss them with the COR/ACO, and require the contractor take corrective action for issues that could potentially impact long-term performance or maintenance.
 Offer to overlook the deviations in exchange for the contractor completing the next section ahead of schedule.


4.
You receive a submittal with a set of shop drawings from a contractor for a complex HVAC system in a new military facility. Upon review, you notice that while most details align with the contract requirements, there are some minor discrepancies in the ductwork layout. How should you proceed?

 Ignore the discrepancies and approve the drawings without comment to avoid project delays.
 Recommend action code disapproved as shop drawings are not correct.
 Recommend Action code Approved with Resubmission required but let the Contractor's figure out and correct the issue.
 Document the discrepancies, request clarification from the contractor, and work collaboratively to ensure the final design meets all contract requirements. Recommend Action code Approved, except as noted for submittal code.
 Recommend action code Approved as submitted, assuming the contractor will make necessary adjustments during installation.


5.
While reviewing structural drawings for a new detention facility, you identify a potential issue with the load-bearing capacity of a key support beam. The discrepancy is not immediately clear-cut. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Disapprove the drawings and instruct the contractor to increase the size of all support beams as a precautionary measure.
 Ignore the potential issue since it's not clearly defined, and approve the drawings to keep the project on schedule.
 Approve the drawings but verbally inform the contractor of your concerns without formal documentation.
 Conditionally approve the drawings, but require the contractor to provide a detailed structural analysis of the support beam before construction begins.
 Consult with a structural engineer and key PDT members, document your concerns in detail, and request additional information before making a decision.


6.
During a site inspection of a nearly completed office building, you notice that the quantity of insulation used in the walls appears to be less than specified in the contract. The contractor argues that the insulation used is of higher quality and therefore less is needed. How do you handle this situation?

 Request documentation proving the insulation's performance, conduct thermal imaging tests to verify effectiveness, and consult with the project engineer before making a decision.
 Ignore the discrepancy since the building is nearly complete, and addressing it would cause significant delays.
 Accept the contractor's explanation without verification, assuming that higher quality materials can compensate for reduced quantity.
 Allow the current installation to remain, but require the contractor to add additional insulation in any areas that don't meet the specified R-value.
 Instruct the contractor to remove all installed insulation and replace it with the exact quantity and type specified in the contract.


7.
You are overseeing the installation of a new fire alarm system in a government building. The contractor has proposed using a component that is not explicitly listed as UL approved but claims it meets equivalent standards. What is your most appropriate response?

 Approve the component based solely on the contractor's assurance, without verifying its compliance with safety standards.
 Research the component's specifications, consult with UL representatives and fire safety experts, and make a recommendation to the PDT based on a thorough evaluation of its compliance with safety standards and the contract.
 Reject the proposed component outright and insist on using only UL-listed parts, regardless of potential benefits or equivalence claims.
 Provisionally accept the component, contingent on the contractor providing comprehensive third-party testing results that demonstrate its equivalence to UL-approved alternatives.
 Suggest that the contractor install the component without formal approval and deal with any compliance issues during the final inspection.


8.
While inspecting a construction site for a new wastewater treatment facility, you notice that workers are not using proper fall protection equipment while working on elevated structures. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Inform the site supervisor of the violation, request an immediate correction, and schedule a follow-up inspection within 24 hours to ensure compliance.
 Verbally warn the workers about the importance of fall protection without halting work or involving the site supervisor.
 Immediately halt the work, document the safety violation, conduct a safety briefing with the site supervisor and workers, and ensure proper fall protection is implemented before allowing work to resume.
 Ignore the violation, assuming the workers know the risks and can make their own decisions about personal safety.
 Document the violation and send a formal written warning to the contractor, giving them 48 hours to address the issue before a follow-up inspection.


9.
You are reviewing pre-award documents for a new military dormitory project. You identify a potential constructability issue with the proposed foundation design that could lead to significant delays and cost overruns. How should you proceed?

 Ignore the issue, assuming that experienced contractors will identify and solve the problem during construction.
 Document the issue in detail but wait to highlight the issue in your BCOES review.
 Recommend a completely new foundation design.
 Document the issue in detail, consult with PDT as soon as possible, and propose alternative foundation solutions that address the constructability concerns while meeting project requirements.
 Verbally mention concerns to the Project Manager without providing and written documentation.


10.
A contractor has submitted a price proposal for additional work on a civil works project, claiming unforeseen site conditions. The proposed cost seems high relative to the scope of work, and your recent site inspection doesn't fully align with their claims. How do you handle this situation?

 Reject the proposal outright based on your site observations and request that the contractor adhere to the original contract terms.
 Focus on the scope of the proposal, comparing it with your site observations and completed site investigations, and provide recommendations to the PE/COR/ACO based on findings.
 Suggest that the contractor perform the additional work without formal approval and settle the payment dispute after the project is completed.
 Review the proposal and provide recommendations to the PE/COR/ACO based on the final price.
 Approve the proposal as submitted to maintain a positive relationship with the contractor and avoid potential delays.


11.
You are managing a complex infrastructure project with multiple interdependent phases. The contractor's current schedule shows potential conflicts that could lead to delays. What is the most effective approach to address this issue?

 Ignore the potential conflicts, assuming they will resolve themselves as the project progresses.
 Request that the contractor revise their schedule to address the conflicts you've identified, and then review the updated schedule for approval.
 Ask the contractor to accelerate work in certain areas to make up for potential delays, without addressing the underlying schedule conflicts.
 Impose your own revised schedule on the contractor without their input, based on your analysis of the project requirements.
 Utilize advanced scheduling software to create a detailed critical path analysis, identify specific conflict points, and work collaboratively with the contractor to optimize the schedule and resource allocation.


12.
You are preparing to lead a pre-construction conference for a new HTRW (Hazardous, Toxic, and Radioactive Waste) project. Several key stakeholders, including the contractor, environmental agencies, and local government representatives, will be present. How do you ensure the most effective communication during this meeting?

 Provide a handout of administrative requirements at the start of the meeting and read through it without allowing for questions or discussion.
 Prepare a detailed agenda, distribute it in advance, create a comprehensive presentation covering all administrative requirements, allow time for questions, and follow up with written minutes and action items.
 Assume all parties are familiar with the requirements and use the meeting time to discuss unrelated project details.
 Create a presentation covering the main points, allow for an open discussion, and send a summary email after the meeting.
 Verbally cover the administrative requirements during the meeting without visual aids, and rely on the contractor to take notes and disseminate information.


13.
During the construction of a detention facility, you identify a significant deficiency in the security system installation that will require major changes to correct. How do you communicate this issue and your recommendations to the project stakeholders?

 Draft a memo describing the issue and your recommended solution, and distribute it to the project manager and other key PDT members for their review and feedback before finalizing the course of action.
 Attempt to correct the deficiency yourself without informing other stakeholders, to avoid potential conflicts or delays.
 Prepare a detailed written report outlining the deficiency, its implications, and your recommended solutions. Discuss with the PDT and assist the PE/COR/ACO with drafting the Basic Change Document, if necessary.
 Briefly document the issue in your daily report without providing specific details. Forward to PDT and Contractors.
 Verbally inform the contractor of the problem and your suggested fix, leaving it to them to communicate with other stakeholders and implement the solution.


14.
A dispute has arisen between the job-site inspector and the contractor's representative regarding the interpretation of specifications for a critical component of a wastewater treatment project. How do you approach resolving this controversy?

 Ignore the dispute, assuming it will resolve itself as the project progresses.
 Ask the parties to resolve the dispute themselves and inform you of the outcome, avoiding direct involvement in the controversy.
 Arrange a meeting with both parties, listen to their perspectives, review relevant documents together, and facilitate a discussion to reach a mutually agreeable solution that adheres to project requirements and engineering principles.
 Side with the job-site inspector's interpretation without further discussion, citing your authority as the Construction Control Representative.
 Separately consult with each party to understand their positions, then propose a compromise solution for their consideration and feedback.


15.
The contractor for a military construction project has submitted a change proposal that significantly increases the project cost. You need to assist with negotiations and draft a price negotiation memorandum. What is the most effective approach?

 Accept the contractor's proposed price to avoid delays, and prepare a memorandum justifying the decision based on project timeline priorities.
 Reject the proposal outright without negotiation, citing budget constraints, and prepare a memorandum explaining the rejection.
 Thoroughly review the proposal, assist the PE/COR prepare a detailed cost analysis, identify areas for potential compromise, schedule a negotiation meeting with correct persons of authority from both sides, document all discussions, and draft a comprehensive price negotiation memorandum that justifies the final agreed-upon price.
 Verbally agree to the changes without formal documentation or price negotiation, planning to sort out the details later in the project.
 Review the proposal, conduct a brief cost analysis, have an informal discussion with the correct persons of authority from both sides to negotiate the price, and then prepare a memorandum summarizing the agreed-upon changes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙