Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12951988-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position. We will review your résumé and questionnaire responses to determine whether you meet the basic qualifications for this role. Please note that your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and any submitted documentation.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f)
 Yes
 No


2.
Education, Experience, or Certification Requirement: Select one of the following responses that best describe your level of experience, education, and/certification.
 I possess an Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field; OR
 I possess an Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
 Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program; OR
 Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship; OR (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment. (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 My education, experience, or certification is not described above.


3.
GRADE DETERMINATION. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.
GS-11
Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
Examples of creditable include: Serve as a developmental Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) performing increasingly more complex tasks designed to prepare them to work independently at the full performance level. Troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on medical equipment. Developmental-level BESSs assist with incoming inspections and documentation. BESSs in this assignment receive increasingly less frequent supervision, direction, or guidance from more experienced staff members.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams.
Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.
Do you posses one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade.?

 Yes, I meet the above experience requirement AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade..
 No, I do not meet the above experience requirement AND/OR the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade.


May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙