Position Title
Public Affairs Specialist
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-13015071-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For GS-12: Specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

Participating in planning, advising, writing, and disseminating public affairs information and materials to include speeches, letters, emails, correspondence, articles, and press releases to inform and educate the public about Agency/Organization programs.




1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience with Public Affairs Programs.
 I have experience managing a variety of Public Affairs Programs.
 I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have experience providing advice on handling problems and incidents related to an organization’s program.
 I have experience establishing good customer service; maintaining effective working relationships with members of broadcasting and print media, community organizations, and other local, state and federal government agencies.
 I have experience developing integrated messaging and coordinating responses in synchronization with leadership objectives and have managed public information communications campaigns to provide strategic communication support on a major program
 None of the above.


4.
Select all of the following in which you have experience.
 A. Evaluated information problems encountered in communicating the organizations programs.
 B. Organized and coordinated public information campaigns with multiple offices to bring about timely and coordinated use of all facilities and skills available in the organization.
 C. Oversaw the development and dissemination of information via traditional and digital channels.
 D. I have not performed any of the above.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to set priorities, plan and organize work.
 I have experience independently determining and assessing my work responsibilities, prioritizing as needed, to meet deadlines that I establish.
 I have experience independently prioritizing my work to meet the deadlines established by my supervisor.
 I have experience processing prioritized work within established deadlines as determined by my supervisor.
 None of the above.


6.
Please select the areas that you have had direct experience with.
 A. Facilitating, planning and executing meetings, presentations, and ceremonies for public and internal audiences, government officials, foreign, local, state and federal, and special interest groups
 B. Facilitating in face-to-face group meetings
 C. Identifying areas to be addressed in a public information campaign, including characteristics and needs of the target audience, and most appropriate communication techniques
 D. Developing and recommending approaches for disseminating information via traditional and digital media channels.
 E. Developing written materials including speeches that transmit information concerning the nature and purpose of Agency/Organization programs as well as items of concern to the general public or to special interest groups
 F. Advising program officials regarding the content and presentation of information materials submitted for dissemination or other information purposes
 G. Developing personal goals and standards
 H. Planning and facilitating meetings
 I. None of the above


7.
Please choose the areas in which you have experience or training.
 A. Ensuring information posted on the organization's public channels, including press releases, articles, fact sheets, and social media posts are current and grammatically accurate.
 B. Determining appropriate audiences, communication methods or measurement and analysis for a public information campaign to target agency/organization messages and determine effectiveness .
 C. Identifying public relation methods to improve communications with the public and specialized groups
 D. Answering phone calls for public affairs to interpret pertinent information such as purpose, urgency, and nature of call to alert staff of sensitive or critical press issues
 E. None of the above


8.
Please choose all that you have experience performing:
 A. Served as a public affairs or outreach representative for a community outreach or education program of a business/organization.
 B. Participated in planning, writing, developing, and disseminating public affairs information and materials to inform and educate the public about Agency/Organization programs.
 C. Participated in coordinating public affairs information and materials to inform and educate the public about agency/organization programs
 D. None of the above.


9.
Please choose the areas in which you have experience.
 A. Coordinating public relations campaigns including prioritizing and delegating tasks, developing timelines, and communicating with multiple offices as an office representative.
 B. Determining appropriate audiences, communication methods or measurement and analysis to target agency/organization messages and determine effectiveness.
 C. Identifying public relations methods that improve communications with the public and specialized groups.
 D. Working with contracting staff or a vendor to plan and execute a public information campaign.
 E. None of the above


10.
What statement best describes your highest level of experience making decisions?
 I have made simple or routine decisions
 As part of a team, I have analyzed issues/problems and made recommendations to management
 I have independently analyzed issues and considered the impact and rules prior to implementing solutions
 None of the above


11.
From the following list, please identify all that you have performed at work:
 A. Managed competing assignments
 B. Set milestones and deadlines for assignments
 C. Briefed staff and management on status of assignments
 D. Provided guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals
 E. Reacted effectively to unforeseen events or delays
 F. Rearranged priorities and work assignments based on the actions of others
 G. None of the above


12.
Do you have experience adjusting to frequent changes in job priorities and/or instructions?
 Yes
 No


13.
Select the software application(s) you are proficient in (proficient means you understand and use a major part of the systems functionality/capabilities).
 A. Word processing software
 B. Data management/spreadsheet software
 C. Presentation software
 D. Electronic mail and messaging
 E. Internet search engines
 F. Other Application Systems (i.e. time and attendance, accounting, scientific, security, supply, etc.)
 G. Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Systems.
 H. None of the above


14.
From the descriptions below, please select the response which best describes the most complex public affairs and technical documents you have prepared.
 I have written, edited, and finalized remarks or speeches for organizational leadership/management.
 I have assisted in writing a public affairs plan or standard operating procedures for a company or worksite.
 I edited Agency/Organization publications for internal and external audiences.
 I contributed or assisted in the development of public affairs brochures/fliers.
 I do not have any experience in this area.


15.
Select the response(s) that best describes your oral communication experience.
 A. Initiating and maintaining contact with individuals outside the organization.
 B. Exchanging information and discussing issues and options available with program managers.
 C. Participating in and representing the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 D. Making informal presentations to co-workers on public affairs issues.
 E. Making formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides, graphics, flip charts, and/or overheads.
 F. Conducting oral presentations (e.g. workshops, training, lectures, interviews, etc.) to influence the acceptance of new programs, services, products or special interests.
 G. Developing new approaches in making informative presentations in structured and unstructured environments to various group sizes with diverse views and backgrounds.
 H. Designing and presenting formal courses of training or instruction using a variety of electronic media.
 I. Protecting and relaying sensitive and/or controversial information to only appropriate parties.
 J. None of the above .


16.
Select the response(s) that best describes your oral communication experience.
 A. Initiating and maintaining contact with individuals outside the organization.
 B. Exchanging information and discussing issues and options available with program managers.
 C. Participating in and representing the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 D. Making informal presentations to co-workers on public affairs issues.
 E. Making formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides, graphics, flip charts, conducting oral presentations (e.g. workshops, training, lectures, interviews, etc.) to influence the acceptance of new programs, services, products or special interests.
 F. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙