Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Community Recreation)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13077476 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Question
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Marina Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
What is your documented Administrative/Clerical experience.
 1 year or more of documented direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 1 year or more of documented direct experience outside an MWR/DOD program.
 6 months to 1 year documented experience.
 No documented experience.


2.
Irregular working hours may be required to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when the need arises. Are you available to work all shifts including on weekends and holidays ?
 Yes
 No, therefore I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.


3.
Describe your documented experience with planning leisure travel packages.
 1 year or more of documented direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 1 year or more of documented experience outside MWR/DOD program.
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience.
 No documented experience


4.
Describe your documented experience with customer service and dealing with the public.

 1 year or more of documented direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 1 year or more of documented experience outside MWR/DOD program.
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙