Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13024227-AR-26-165 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (G4 - FMS #9) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (G4 - FMS #9) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E1 - E7) or Warrant Officer (WO1 - CW2)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the minimum requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-08/10 Surface Maintenance Mechanic.
 I HAVE experience or training which demonstrates my knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and I am able to use common tools and equipment in the line of work.
 I DO NOT possess the above experience or training.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-08/10 Surface Maintenance Mechanic.
 I HAVE at least 12 months, but less than 18 months experience or training, 1) using common hand and power tools and a small variety of test and measurement devices to make mechanical repairs, 2) removing, adjusting, replacing, cleaning, and installing a variety of parts, components, and accessories, 3) which demonstrates a basic understanding of mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic theory applying to vehicles; and skill to replace, fit, install, and make adjustments, 4) demonstrating an understanding of the makeup and operation of the various individual systems maintained and their interrelationships, and 5) reading and interpreting parts lists, manufactures’ repair manuals, diagrams, and electrical schematics. (WG-08)
 I DO NOT HAVE at least 12 months of the experience and skill listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙