Position Title
Program Manager (Integrator)
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POGN-26-12980982-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. East Hartford, CT
 B. Hanscom AFB, MA
 C. Pittsfield, MA
 D. Westover Air Reserve Base, MA


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Position Title position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Providing comprehensive oversight and direction for multiple, concurrent projects; Leading a multi-functional team, including but not limited to, Engineers, Quality Assurance Technicians, Industrial Specialists, Software Specialists, and Contracting personnel; Applying acquisition strategy principles and methods to ensure success of comprehensive, integrated acquisition management programs; and Evaluating contractor compliance against program requirements based on contractual agreement(s) and strategic goals.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
When managing a Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP), the government's contract administration and oversight organization serves many stakeholders. Which of the following is considered its primary customer?

 The Prime Contractor
 The individual military service (e.g., Army, Navy) Program Office
 The senior acquisition leadership of the Department of War (e.g., OUSW A&S)
 The Government Accountability Office (GAO)
 The end-users of the system (e.g., soldiers, pilots, sailors)


3.
Which of the following statements is TRUE?

 Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAP) are typically classified and highly sensitive.
 A Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP) is typically categorized under the Acquisition Category (ACAT) II.
 Oversight of cost, schedule, and performance is paramount in Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP) management.
 Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAP) are typically a low investment for the government and have a limited impact on national defense capabilities.


4.
As it pertains to negotiating contacts, Effective Competition is a market condition where two or more contactors actively contend for the Government's business in a manner that ensures the Government will be offered the lowest cost or price alternative or best technical design meeting its minimum needs.

 True
 False


5.
Which of the following is the primary criterion used to designate a program as an Acquisition Category (ACAT) I?

 The program's estimated cost exceeds a specific dollar threshold defined by policy.
 The program is considered technologically complex or high-risk.
 The program requires a high level of Congressional oversight and reporting.
 The program's outcome supports the operational needs of multiple military services.
 The program has a production and deployment schedule lasting more than five years.


6.
All contracts at or below $20M require Earned Value Management (EVM) Analysis.

 True
 False


7.
Which of the following is NOT a typical phase of the Defense Acquisition Lifecycle?

 Material Solution Analysis (MSA): Potential solutions are assessed to meet a validated capability gap.
 Technology Maturation and Risk Reduction (TMRR): Lower technical and programmatic risks before committing to full-scale engineering.
 Production and Deployment: Product is manufactured, tested, and delivered for operational use.
 Operations & Support: Emphasizes maintaining systems over their lifecycle, emphasizing sustainability and readiness.
 Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A): Target identification, due diligence, negotiation, and post-merger integration.


8.
A "supply chain" is the interconnected network of organizations, resources, and activities that a product or service moves through from raw material to the end customer.

 True
 False


9.
While an effective supply chain provides many benefits, which of the following is the MOST critical and ultimate benefit from a military operational perspective?

 Higher operational availability and readiness for military forces.
 Greater resilience to disruptions from adversaries or natural disasters.
 Lower life-cycle sustainment costs and improved efficiency.
 Increased satisfaction from the end-user (the warfighter).
 Improved relationships with commercial suppliers and partners.


10.
Which option BEST describes the purpose of the Material Solution Analysis (MSA) phase?

 To conduct an Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) for a potential new acquisition program.
 To analyze potential materiel solutions to satisfy the validated capability gap identified in an Initial Capabilities Document (ICD).
 To select the most promising and affordable materiel solution concept, supported by an Analysis of Alternatives (AoA), to guide the next phase of acquisition.
 To mature key technologies and reduce programmatic risk by building competitive prototypes before committing to full-scale development.
 To translate the user's validated capability needs into a set of initial, high-level system performance requirements for the selected solution.


11.
What is the primary purpose of the Critical Design Review (CDR) in a project's life-cycle?

 To verify that the system's design is mature, stable, and ready to proceed with fabrication, assembly, and testing.
 To determine if a contractor's production line and quality control processes are ready for full-rate production.
 To ensure all system requirements have been allocated and that the preliminary design meets those requirements.
 To confirm that the system is ready for formal operational testing in a realistic environment.
 To select the most promising technical approach from a set of competing concepts at the start of a program.


12.
What contract type poses least risk to the Government?

 Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF)
 Cost Plus Award Fee (CPAF)
 Fixed Price Incentive Fee (FPIF)
 Firm Fixed Price (FFP)
 Fixed-Price with Economic Price Adjustment (FP-EPA)


13.
Which option BEST describes the purpose of surveillance when managing a Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP)?

 To provide insight into a contractor’s performance ensuring they meet contract requirements for quality, cost, and schedule.
 To ensure the contractor provides accurate cost and pricing data to support fair and reasonable price negotiations.
 To ensure the government receives the goods and/or services as specified in the contract.
 To monitor contractor data.
 To provide a physical presence on the factory floor


14.
Which of the following are NOT a method used in risk management?

 Probability of occurrence
 Consequence of occurrence
 Performance Testing analysis
 Root Cause identification
 Mitigation Plan analysis


15.
Which of the following is NOT true of the Earned Value Management System (EVMS)?

 An Integrated Baseline Review (IBR) is conducted after contract award to ensure a mutual understanding of the project's baseline and associated risks.
 EVMS requirements are typically flowed down to subcontractors performing a significant or critical portion of the contracted work.
 A contract's EVMS data is primarily used to track a contractor's spending against their budget, not for forecasting final costs.
 A validated EVMS is required on cost or incentive contracts valued at or above $100 million.
 If an offeror's EVMS is not yet validated as compliant, their proposal must include a plan for achieving compliance.


16.
Which option BEST describes what should be identified on a Program Assessment Report (PAR) when managing a Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP)?

 Current condition of the program/contract to include cost, schedule, technical performance and future program performance predictions.
 Evaluation of program/contract data documenting performance/output.
 Details of program requirements to include cost and schedule.
 Program’s mission and current status.
 A recap of the Contractor’s monthly.


17.
Which of the following is the primary consolidated Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) for Earned Value Management (EVM) data reporting?

 Integrated Program Management Data Analysis Report (IPMDAR)
 Integrated Master Schedule (IMS)
 Contract Funds Status Report (CFSR)
 Performance Narrative Report
 Contract Work Breakdown Structure (CWBS)


18.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 42. 302 authorizes an agency to perform what function?

 Contract Administration Services (CAS)
 Right to access contractor documents
 Preliminary Design Review (PDR)
 Earned Value Management System (EVMS) Surveillance


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙