Position Title
Financial Management Analyst
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-ADM-KB-017 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


3.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

Do you have an intellectual, psychiatric or severe physical disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, please review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Assessment 1
1.
Applicants must be current DOJ employees with competitive status. You have status if you are a current or former career or career conditional employee in the competitive service.

Do you meet the conditions above?
 Yes, I meet the conditions above.
 No, I do not meet the conditions above.


2.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade level, applicants must have one of the following:
A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three (3) full years of progressively higher education leading to such a degree, or LL.M,if related, that demonstrates the competencies needed to do the work of the position; OR
At least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level. Examples of specialized experience must include duties such as: developing estimates for funding requirements to support plans and programs; preparing ad hoc budget and financial reports for all facets of budget operations; utilizing automated financial and accounting systems to monitor, track and report on program obligations; auditing financial records for compliance with internal controls; andproviding recommendations to management to resolve a variety of funding transactions, complaints, or discrepancies; OR
Combination of education and experience may also be used to qualify. Please note, only education in excess of two full years of graduate education may be used in this calculation.
Do you meet one of these conditions?
 Yes, I meet one of these conditions described above.
 No, I do not meet one of these conditions described above.


3.
To qualify at the GS-12 level, applicants much have one year of specialized experience, at or equivalent to, the GS-11 federal grade level. This experience must include duties such as: overseeing major components of an organization's budget operations, including formulation and execution; preparing ad hoc budget and financial reports of all facets of budget operations; leading preparation for compliance and records audits; and providing recommendations to management to resolve a variety of funding transactions, complaints, or discrepancies.

Do you have the qualifying experience?
 Yes, I possess the qualifying experience described above.
 No, I do not possess the qualifying experience described above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-13 level, applicants must have one year of specialized experience, at or equivalent to, the GS-12 federal grade level. This experience must include duties such as: overseeing major components of an organization's budget operations, including formulation and long-range execution; preparing ad hoc budget and financial reports of all facets of budget operations for presentation to leadership; leading preparation for compliance and records audits; and providing guidance to management and high-ranking external stakeholders and recommending changes in funding and budget plans to meet substantive program goals.

Do you have the qualifying experience?
 Yes, I possess the qualifying experience described above.
 No, I do not possess the qualifying experience described above.


5.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify or inflate your responses may be grounds for not referring you. Please take this opportunity to review your rating to ensure the accuracy of your answers and that they are supported by your resume. Failure to agree to this statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


You are strongly encouraged to convert to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙