Position Title
Auditor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12990216-26-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. White City, OR
 B. Seattle, WA
 C. Vancouver, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Auditor position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Restriction: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of the posting. If you have not held a GS position within the last 52 weeks the following time-in-grade questions do not apply to you.


1.
For the GS-7 grade level, applicants must have held a GS-5 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-7.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-5 grade level or I am currently a GS-7 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, I am a Wage Grade employee).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


2.
For the GS-9 grade level, applicants must have held a GS-7 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-9.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 grade level or I am currently a GS-9 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, I am a Wage Grade employee).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


3.
For the GS-11 grade level, applicants must have held a GS-9 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-9.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 grade level or I am currently a GS-11 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, I am a Wage Grade employee).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


4.
Basic Qualification Requirements: The following is used to determine basic qualifications for this position. Please select the statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualifications.
 I posses a bachelor's or higher degree in accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. Note: Transcripts required.
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge and my background includes one of the following: (1) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, and successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; and a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors have determined that I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study in accounting and/or auditing; and except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements for an Auditor. Note: Transcripts required.
 None of the above.


In addition to meeting the basic qualification requirements, applicants must have specialized experience and/or directly related education for each grade level.


5.
Minimum Qualifications, GS-7: Please select the statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the specific qualification requirements for an Auditor, GS-7.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-5 level in the Federal service, that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to an Auditor. Specialized experience includes: Assisting with audits in areas such as finance, acquisition, logistics, and capital asset management; applying basic knowledge of auditing concepts, principles, and techniques under supervision; preparing audit reports or supporting documentation; managing multiple assignments or tasks at once; and using financial systems and IT software to collect and organize data. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position AND the number of hours a week spent in such employment.
 I have one (1) year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement directly related to this position. Note: Transcripts required.
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate level education with a major appropriate to the position and qualifying specialized experience to meet the total specialized experience requirement Note: Transcripts required.
 I do not meet the experience and/or education requirements in any of the above statements.


6.
Minimum Qualifications, GS-9: Please select the statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the specific qualification requirements for an Auditor, GS-9.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-7 level in the Federal service, that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to an Auditor. Specialized experience includes: Independently conducting audits in areas such as finance, acquisition, logistics, capital asset management, or quality control; applying comprehensive knowledge of auditing theories, principles, and techniques to various assignments; recommending ways to improve work processes, increase cost-effectiveness, or enhance productivity; managing multiple audit assignments simultaneously with limited supervision; using financial systems and IT software to analyze and interpret financial data. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position AND the number of hours a week spent in such employment.
 I have two (2) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate in a field of study directly related to this position. Note: Transcripts required.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond one year of graduate-level education in a field of study directly related to this position. Note: Transcripts required.
 I do not meet the experience and/or education requirements in any of the above statements.


7.
Minimum Qualifications, GS-11: Please select the statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the specific qualification requirements for an Auditor, GS-11.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service, that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to an Auditor. Specialized experience includes: Independently performing complex and difficult audits in areas such as finance, acquisition, logistics, and capital asset management; applying a thorough knowledge of advanced auditing theories, principles, and methodologies to develop audit guidelines and procedures; creating and implementing a wide range of auditing techniques and methodologies; providing consultative services and training on financial processes to other staff members; reviewing audit reports to ensure accurate recommendations and compliance with relevant standards and regulations; making recommendations to improve productivity, cost-effectiveness, and quality of work processes; and utilizing and advising on the use of financial systems for complex audit procedures. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position AND the number of hours a week spent in such employment.
 I have three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field of study directly related to this position. Note: Transcripts required.
 I have a combination of education beyond a master's degree in a field of study directly related to this position and specialized experience to meet the full requirement. Note: Transcripts required.
 I do not meet the experience and/or education requirements in any of the above statements.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Salary/Rank etc.
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
References, current or recent supervisor
Do not include the following types of information in your resume:
Classified or Government sensitive information
Social Security Number (SSN)
Photos of yourself
Personal information, such as age, gender, religious affiliation, etc.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. The experience stated in your resume must support your assessment responses.
 
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙