Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
NSD-26-12984084-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


1.
Please select the response below that best reflects your specialized experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for a GS-9 Paralegal Specialist?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector contributing in a team acting as the intersection of the prosecution and the law enforcement community; AND collaborating with other paralegals to provide support to prosecuting attorneys working for the city, state, military, or federal level.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I have a LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
Please select the response below that best reflects your specialized experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for a GS-11 Paralegal Specialist?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector independently acting as the intersection between the law enforcement community and the criminal prosecution team serving the city, state, military, or federal government; AND independently supporting criminal prosecution attorneys on the city, state, military, or federal level while ensuring confidential and critical case elements remain protected.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I have a LL.M., if related
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙