Position Title
Deputy Chief
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-DPS-12845600 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current employee of the AO or the Federal Judiciary?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Deputy Chief position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions.

WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position is opened to the current employees of the Federal Judiciary and the Administrative Offices of the United States Courts (AO). Are you a current employee of the Federal Judiciary or the AO?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-15/JSP-15/CL 31, or equivalent level?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants must have at least one full year (52 weeks) (preferably three) of specialized experience which provides evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined in the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) listed in the vacancy announcement. Specialized experience for this position is defined as follows:

1. Working in a public or private-sector position that provided a thorough understanding of organizational, procedural, and human aspects in managing an organization.
2. Communicating departmental and agency priorities.
3. Advising senior management on legal and administrative matters.
 Yes, I have one year of specialized experience which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


4.
If A is selected above, a narrative statement must be submitted in the space provided below addressing your demonstrated senior level experience in ALL of the following:

1. Working in a public or private-sector position that provided a thorough understanding of organizational, procedural, and human aspects in managing an organization.
2. Communicating departmental and agency priorities.
3. Advising senior management on legal and administrative matters.

THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 1000 words or less.


5.
In the space provided below, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) where we can locate this information. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 250 words or less.


6.
From the options listed below, please select the years of experience you possess working in a senior-level position and providing leadership to high-level officials and employees in a government agency or other entities.
 10 or more years.
 5-10 years.
 1-5 years.
 Less than 1 year.


A narrative response for each of the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) is MANDATORY and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application.


Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated experience providing strategic, legal, or policy guidance to senior leadership on complex organizational matters. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated experience leading, supervising, or mentoring a diverse team of professionals. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated experience managing or coordinating strategic initiatives and communicating progress to ensure alignment with agency-wide priorities, including identifying and reporting departmental needs. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated experience reviewing, editing, or advising on policy documents, briefing materials, talking points, or executive-level presentations developed by others. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience coordinating or contributing, contributing, or developing plans and materials in support of agency or organization-wide efforts, such as emergency preparedness, appropriations lapse, and continuity of operation plans; construction, security, structure, or reorganization efforts, or other initiatives. planning, security initiatives. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated experience providing strategic or legal advice to leadership on human resources matters, including hiring, recognition, workforce issues, or disciplinary actions. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


A narrative response for each of the following Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) is MANDATORY. Exception: applicants currently serving in an AOES and Court Unit Executive positions or under a career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointment, eligible for reinstatement into SES, or have successfully completed a SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM are not required to submit a narrative response for the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). All other applicants must submit responses to the ECQs.


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING CHANGE. This core qualification involves experience in developing and implementing an organizational vision, which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors. The incumbent must be able to develop new insights into situations, question conventional approaches, encourage new ideas and innovations, and design and implement new or cutting-edge programs and processes. The incumbent must also be able to think strategically, formulate objectives and priorities, and implement plans consistent with the long-term interests of the organization in a global environment while capitalizing on opportunities, managing risks, and overcoming obstacles. (Key Competencies: Creativity and Innovation, Continual Learning, External Awareness, Flexibility, Resilience, Strategic Thinking, Vision) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING PEOPLE. This core qualification involves experience in designing and implementing strategies, which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, including adherence to EEO guidelines. This includes fostering a work environment where individual differences are valued, managed, and leveraged to achieve, through teamwork, the vision and mission of the organization. The incumbent should be able to develop others to perform and contribute to the organization by providing ongoing feedback and providing opportunities to learn through formal and informal methods. This includes taking a long-term view and building a shared vision with others, acting as a catalyst for organizational change, and influencing others to translate vision into action. (Key Competencies: Organizational Awareness, Interpersonal Skills, Integrity/Honesty, Conflict Management, Team Building, Developing Others) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your BUSINESS ACUMEN. This core qualification involves experience in building and managing a workforce based on organizational goals and staffing needs. It also involves ensuring that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded, and taking action to address performance plans. The incumbent should have experience in managing a multi-sector workforce and a variety of work situations, and in developing and managing budgets and contracts. This includes keeping up to date on technological developments, making effective use of technology to achieve results, and ensuring access to and security of technology systems. (Key Competencies: Financial Management, Human Resources Management, Technology Management, Procurement Management) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience with RESULTS-DRIVEN skills. This core qualification involves experience in stressing accountability and continuous improvement, making timely and effective decisions, and producing results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. The incumbent should have the requisite technical knowledge to identify and pursue appropriate outcomes, as well as practical experience in anticipating and meeting the needs of both internal and external customers, delivering high-quality products and services, and resolving issues and problems. (Key Competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness, Entrepreneurship, Problem Solving, Technical Credibility) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience BUILDING COALITIONS/COMMUNICATION. This core qualification involves experience in developing networks, building alliances, and collaborating across boundaries to build strategic relationships and achieving common goals. This core qualification also involves identifying the internal and external politics that impact the work of the organization. The incumbent should have experience in persuading others, building consensus through give and take, and gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. (Key Competencies: Influencing/Negotiating, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Partnering) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


7.
Applicants who meet the specialized experience requirements also will be assessed on Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). Each of the MTQ must be addressed in your application, and a separate response to each ECQ is mandatory and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application. Please limit your response to two pages for each MTQ & ECQ.
 A. Yes, I have addressed each MTQ in my application, and each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 B. No, I did not address each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document. I have held or am currently in an AOES/SES position, have held an AOES/SES position or have successfully completed an SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM. I have addressed each of the MTQs in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 C. No, I did not address each MTQ, ECQ, or specialized experience statement with a narrative response in a separate document. I understand this will result in my ineligibility for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient) for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙