Position Title
ELECTRONICS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12923667-AR-26-058 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants ONLY. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you Warrant Officer in the grades of CW3 - CW4?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of CW3 - CW4.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer in the grades of CW3 - CW4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates the applicants knowledge of electrical or electronic theory, knowledge of common testing procedures, skill in the use of hand tools of the electronics trade, and skill in reading schematics?
 Yes
 No


2.
WS-11: Do you possess 18 months experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a complex project you were responsible for planning from a week-to-week or month-to-month basis. Explain how you established priorities and work sequences, allocated resources (workers, equipment, materials), and coordinated with other supervisors or teams. What was the most significant challenge you encountered, such as an unanticipated workload or a productivity issue, and what corrective actions did you implement to resolve it?



4.

This position involves directing the work of others and handling various administrative responsibilities. Describe a time you had to appraise subordinate work performance and identify training needs. How did you set the performance standards, what was the outcome of the appraisal, and what steps did you take to arrange the necessary training?



5.

Safety and readiness are critical components of this role. Describe a time you were responsible for implementing a key safety requirement or leading a team during a readiness evaluation, inspection, or emergency exercise. What was your specific role, and how did you ensure your subordinates were prepared, properly equipped, and followed all pertinent safety precautions?



6.

Leaders in this role must be able to both supervise the work of a unit and perform the non-supervisory work of the function as needed. Tell us about a situation where your team was facing a tight deadline or a significant obstacle. How did you balance your supervisory duties-such as redirecting workers and managing schedules-with the need to personally step in and perform the hands-on work to help your team succeed?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙