Position Title
SMALL CRAFT OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13081405-DHA
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 15, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Min QC CE RK01326 13081405 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Small Craft Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex operation, navigation using HYPACK and maintenance of boats at least 26 feet in length, engine repair, towing boats over land, launching and retrieving of boats from trailers, operate electrical equipment such as generators, VHF radios, operate surveying equipment associated with field data acquisition and data downloading for topographic, hydrographic and construction surveys. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform a full range of navigation using HYPACK or other navigational software while maneuvering a boat, repair engines to keep them in operating condition and operate survey equipment such as GPS.
 I have the ability to perform common operation of a boat, determining and following courses on the ater, boat maintenance and make minor engine repairs and perform inspections.
 I have the ability to perform simple boat operation and maintenance of the boat, performs general engine repair, and trailers boats.
 I do not have on-the-job training or the abilities described above.
2.
This position requires a Motorboat Operator's license issued by U.S. Coast Guard Marine Inspection Service. Do you possess a Motorboat Operator's license issued by U.S. Coast Guard Marine Inspection Service? (must attach a copy).
 Yes
 No
3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
