Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-13080350-26-BS
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No
2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
.
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume: Prioritize most relevant and recent experience Use concise, results focused language Align language from the job announcement Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies Remove outdated or unrelated experience Use the USAJOBS resume builder Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at: https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/ SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.
.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Program Analyst 7/9
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the Program Analyst work at the GS-07 level or equivalent in the Federal Service. Ensure your resume supports your response that you select and/or provide transcripts if using education to qualify.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would be experience that provided you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and which is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include, but is not limited to: coordinating with others between various units and offices to accomplish work related projects; analyzing work flow to determine potential problem areas and making recommendations to correct; proofreading documents for grammatical errors; notifying others of pending appointments and meetings; advising others on processes or procedures; using a computer to enter and maintain data for programs; and sorting and processing incoming correspondence.
 I possess one year of full-time graduate education which is directly related to the Program Analyst position or a Bachelor’s degree with Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) in a course of study that directly relates to the position. The education must be in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualification and perform the duties of the position. One year of graduate education is 18 semester hours or the number determined by the school attended to represent one year of full-time study. SAA is based on class standing (upper third), GPA (3.0 or above) or honor society membership (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I possess a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-7 level. This can be determined by adding total qualifying experience as a percentage of the required experience and education as a percentage of the total required. The total percentage must equal 100 percent (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.
2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-09 Program Analyst. Ensure your resume supports your response that you select and/or provide transcripts if using education to qualify.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would be experience that provided you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and which is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include but is not limited to: Assisting with collecting, compiling, and/ or tracking data and statistical information in support of program operations; processing and analyzing data and monitoring and updating reports; identifying, analyzing, and recommending solutions to problems; making recommendations based on analysis of statistical data for process improvements; maintaining computerized databases or information tracking systems.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree which is directly related to the Program Analyst position, or 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B. or J.D., if related to the work of this position. The education must be in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualification and perform the duties of the position. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I possess a combination of qualifying specialized experience and education as described above to qualify at the GS-9 level for the Program Analyst position. This is determined by adding total qualifying experience as a percentage of the required experience and education as a percentage of the total required. The total percentage must equal 100 percent. Only education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (i.e. beyond the first year of graduate level education) is creditable towards meeting the specialized experience requirement. The education must be in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualification and perform the duties of the position. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.
.
REMINDER SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action: As If you are a current permanent VA employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status. SF-50's can be found in your eOPF.
