Position Title
Records and Information Management Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
344-26-MB-12992247-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs and Veterans Affairs (VA) employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a current permanent employee of the Veterans Administration Agency?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 as defined in the "Required Document" section of this job announcement.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA).


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT

GS-11 Level Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS-09 grade or higher within the past 52 weeks must meet the applicable time-in-grade requirements. Please note: An SF-50 documenting your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

To substantiate your claim, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (excluding award or general adjustment SF-50s). Some applicants may need to submit multiple SF-50s to fully demonstrate their eligibility.
For additional details, please refer to the "Required Documents" section. Applicants eligible to bypass time-in-grade requirements must provide supporting documentation within their application package.

Kindly select the appropriate response below for each grade level to confirm your eligibility.


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B or C applies to me.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower
grade level in the Federal Service.


3.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as interpreting and applying a variety of routine
Federal or state personnel rules, regulations, and procedures applicable to at least one of the following areas: personnel management, recruitment and staffing, classification, or employee and labor relations.

Or you may possess education substitution in the following related fields: 

Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree

or

3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree

or

LL.M., if related
or
you may possess a combination of specialized experience and education as described above.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher in the Federal Service.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. I will submit transcripts as supporting documentation.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current
position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current
position to receive consideration.


4.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙