Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Rating)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
346-26-KDT-12964774-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open only to applicants in the local Seattle, WA commuting area who are eligible for the Department of Veterans Affairs Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).


1.
Do you reside in the local Seattle, WA commuting area?

 Yes
 No


CTAP ELIGIBILITY: You must be a Surplus/Displaced Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee and meet the eligibility requirements for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) to be considered for this vacancy announcement.


2.
Please select the response below that best describes your situation.

 I meet the definition of "surplus" employee, because I meet all three of the following criteria: (1) I am in the competitive service, (2) I am in tenure group I (career) or group II (career-conditional) AND (3) I have an official notice from the VA saying that my position is no longer needed.
 I meet the definition of a "displaced" employee, because I meet all of the following criteria: (1) I am in the competitive service, (2) I am in tenure group I (career) or tenure group II (career-conditional), AND (3) I have an official notice from the VA saying that I will be separated by reduction in force.
 I do not meet the definition of "surplus" or "displaced" employee as described in (A) or (B). Therefore, I am not eligible to apply for this announcement.


3.
To be eligible for CTAP, you must apply for a vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current grade. This vacancy announcement is for the GS-12 level; therefore, your current grade must be GS-12 or higher.

 Yes, I meet the grade level requirement.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy.


4.
To qualify for the GS-12 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as (1) determining the eligibility for federal, state, or local administered benefits, such as: disability, education, housing, medical and/or veterans' benefits; and (2) applying federal or state laws to process claims pertaining to an employment, disability, or benefit program.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include:
Gathering and requesting evidence to build service program case files, respond to claimant inquiries, and identify errors, inconsistencies, or omissions.
Explaining decisions to claimants, customers, special interest groups, dependents and/or representatives in an effort to gain understanding of determinations.
Determining the eligibility for federal or state-administered benefits, such as: disability, education, housing, medical and/or veterans' benefits.
Applying federal and state laws to process claims pertaining to a service, disability, or benefit program.
Processing claims for eligibility for workers' compensation benefits to determine appropriateness and amount of worker's compensation claims.
Performing, ordering and/or evaluating diagnostic tests to identify and assess patient's condition, report symptoms or changes in patients' condition, maintain accurate detailed reports/charts.
 I have one year, or more, of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the next lower grade level.
 I do not have the experience described above; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


VERIFICATION: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙