Position Title
AIRCRAFT INSPECTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13008209-AR-26-541 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications. Must be skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to journey-level experience or training equivalent to the WG-10 level, applicants must have experience that includes performing, coordinating, and/or overseeing the work and any periodic inspections to be done on an aircraft whether it is alone, or with the assistance of other mechanics and/or workers. Experience coordinating the work of other journey-level workers in other trades to work simultaneously on the aircraft. Experience serving as the technical authority to advise on, examine, and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical, and pneudraulic repairs of assigned aircraft.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E5 - E9; Warrant WO1 - CW4)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙