Position Title
Human Resources Officer (Human Resources Operation Center Director)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13048375-26-TLW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Duty Location
1.
You must select at least one of the locations listed for consideration. You will be required to live within the catchment area of the Human Resources Operational Center (HROC) you choose. Please indicate which HROC catchment area(s) covers the duty location of the position you are applying for.
 A. HROC 1 ((VA North Atlantic)) includes West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Maine, Rhode Island, Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, Connecticut, Vermont and Massachusetts.
 B. HROC 2 (VA Southeast) includes Georgia, Florida, Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands and Virginia.
 C. HROC 3 (VA MidAmerica) includes Ohio, North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Kentucky, and Tennessee.
 D. HROC 4 (VA Heart of the Nation) includes Wyoming, Utah, Nebraska, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana
 E. HROC 5 (VA Pacific West) includes Washington, Montana, Oregon, Nevada, California, Idaho, Arizona, Alaska, Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands, and New Mexico.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: To qualify as a Human Resources Director GS-15 applicants must meet Time in Grade (TIG) and GS-14 Specialized Experience Qualification Requirements. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants must have held grade GS-14 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-15. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Do you meet time-in-grade requirement?

Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current Federal employee status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one- year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one-year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one-year time-in-grade. Failure to upload proper SF-50(s) could result in loss of consideration.
 Yes
 No


2.
Criteria 1. Specialized Experience: Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-14) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization? To meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet the following examples of specialized experience. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Leading and directing a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary HR program across a large, complex organization, including staffing, classification, compensation, labor/employee relations, workforce planning, HRIS, and benefits.
Providing executive-level HR consultation to senior leaders on complex, precedent-setting, or controversial HR issues with organization-wide impact, including policy interpretation and operational risk assessment.
Overseeing subordinate supervisors and geographically dispersed HR teams, including setting performance standards, approving personnel actions, and resolving high-level disciplinary, grievance, or labor-management issues.
Developing, interpreting, and implementing HR policies, governance processes, and operational guidance, including conducting policy impact analyses and ensuring compliance with federal regulations, directives, and collective bargaining agreements.
Applying advanced analytical and diagnostic techniques to evaluate HR program effectiveness, service delivery, workforce needs, and compliance metrics, and leading enterprise-level HR modernization or improvement initiatives.
OR

Criteria 2: Do you possess a Graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙