Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Program Director)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12853462 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Jan 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
Work may require physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, crouching, stooping, stretching, reaching or similar activity, or lifting heavy items up to 45 pounds.  Are you willing and able to perform work with these physical demands?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to work varied work schedules to include split days off, evenings, weekends, and holidays?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently possess or are you able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license?  License will be requested and review upon hire.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
In order to meet minimum qualifications for the Fitness Director position, a qualified candidate must possess the following experience and or professional certification, while elements (a) through (c) are preferred, a combination of the two of these may sufficiently qualify an individual to perform their duties as a program director:  

A) Professional certification from a National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) accredited health/fitness organization. (If qualifying based on this element, a current certification must be uploaded in order to be considered.)

B) Documented experience in the competency of business and the design and delivery of exercise program. 

C) At least three years of documented experience in the fitness industry/field for civilian personnel.
 Yes, I possess all three elements as stated above and my resume reflects the required experience, and I have attached proof of current certification.
 Yes, I possess at least two of the three elements as stated above and my resume reflects the required experience and/or I have attached proof of current certification.
 No, I currently only possess one element of the three listed as described above.
 No, I do not possess any of the required experience and/or professional certifications.


2.
Do you currently possess a valid Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and First Aid Certification?  (If yes, copy must be uploaded in order to receive credit)
 Yes, I do currently have a valid CPR and First Aid Certificate, and I have uploaded a copy.
 No, I do not currently have a valid CPR and First Aid Certificate, but I am willing to obtain it within the first six (6) months of employment.
 No, I do not currently have a valid CPR and First Aid Certificate, nor am I willing to obtain during my employment.


3.
My working knowledge and experience of applying a wide range of fitness principles, concepts and techniques that govern physical fitness programs can best be described as the following:

Fitness principles include but are not limited to experience in exercise science, strength conditioning, nutrition, weight loss/control, cardiovascular endurance, exercise requirements and projected results.
 I have no working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 I have less than one (1) year of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the fitness industry.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the DOD or other federal agencies.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties outside of the DOD or other federal agencies.
 I have between three (3) and five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the DOD or other federal agencies.
 I have between three (3) and five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties outside of the DOD or other federal agencies.
 I have more than five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the DOD or other Federal agencies.
 I have more than five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties outside of the DOD or other federal agencies.


4.
How many years of experience do you possess in performing a full range of supervisory duties? 

Supervisory duties include, but are not limited to directly supervising staff members, completing hiring actions, taking appropriate disciplinary actions, coaching and developing staff members, conducting annual staff performance reviews assigning work based on priorities and supporting EEO policies that foster positive work environments. 

 I do not possess experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess less than one (1) year experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess more than five (5) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.


5.
My experience with budgeting processes including the ability to prepare a budget in accordance with program goals, policies and guidance is best described as:
 I possess more than five (5) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above duties.
 I do not possess experience with the above duties.


6.
My documented experience developing and adapting new methods, approaches and procedures for the most effective management of a fitness program can best be described as:
 I possess no documented experience with the above duties.
 I possess less than two (2) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience with the above duties.


7.
My documented experience in planning and executing a comprehensive fitness, aquatics and/or sports program that includes a variety of fitness and aquatics activities and individual and team sports can best be described as:
 I do not possess experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 I possess less than two (2) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙