Position Title
SENIOR TECHNICAL ADVISOR FOR HEALTH PHYSICS
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DEST-13007003-26-TB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30% or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Transfer Eligible

Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position
-and-
have completed an initial appointment probation or trial period?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).
Note: NRC employees should select 'No' for this question as excepted service employees.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interchange Agreement Eligible

Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

-AND/OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Health Administration Employee
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) Employee
Tennessee Valley Authority Employee
Federal Aviation Administration Employee
Transportation Security Administration Employee
Americorps Employee
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems: Types of Appointments

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

Note: NRC employees will be considered under a different authority and should answer 'no' to this question.
 Yes
 No


5.

Military Spouse Eligible

Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is eligible for non-competitive appointment of certain military spouses? You are eligible if you: 

Are married to an active-duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days; OR 

Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury; OR 

Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty. 

You are required to support your claim with the documents below: 

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate); AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active-duty service for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter); OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).
For more information, please see Military Spouse Hiring Path.
 Yes
 No


6.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


7.
Peace Corps/VISTA Eligible

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? 
- OR - 
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? 
- OR - 
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reinstatement Eligible

Are you a former Federal Employee who previously held a permanent position and is eligible for reinstatement?

To verify eligibility, you must submit your qualifying SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade; salary; and full performance level.
 Yes
 No


9.
Schedule A Eligible

Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities page.
 Yes
 No


10.
VEOA Eligible

Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:  
served three or more years of continuous active-duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); -OR- 
are entitled to veterans' preference?  
For more information, please review USAJOBS Veterans resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


2.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position SN-00, grade level or equivalent pay band. I have extensive specialized experience in health physics, radiation protection, or a closely related scientific or engineering discipline, demonstrating expert knowledge and application of radiation protection principles, health physics policies, nuclear materials concepts, and the ability to provide authoritative technical advice on complex radiation safety matters. My experience includes serving as a senior technical resource, evaluating complex radiation protection issues, developing or implementing health physics programs, interpreting regulatory requirements, and advising organizational leadership on nuclear materials and radiation safety decisions.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this Health Physics position.
 I have an advanced degree in health physics, medical physics, engineering, physical science, biological science, or a closely related scientific discipline; and I possess extensive progressively responsible professional experience directly related to health physics, radiation protection, and nuclear materials. I am a Certified Health Physicist (CHP) in good standing or am eligible to obtain certification.
 I have an advanced degree in health physics, medical physics, engineering, physical science, biological science, or a closely related scientific discipline; and I possess progressively responsible professional experience directly related to health physics, radiation protection, and nuclear materials.
 I am not a Certified Health Physicist and do not currently meet the eligibility requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙