Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-12964772-26-OS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1) or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1), or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be removed from consideration, or your score will be lowered.



1.
GS-9 Level: You may qualify at this grade level by meeting one (1) of the following below:

Specialized Experience
You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in federal service (GS-7) or public or private sector equivalent. For this position, specialized experience is defined as:
 
Planning and conducting management analysis projects and studies that include the identification, consideration and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature pertaining to readily observable conditions such as areas of responsibility, channels of communication, delegation of authority, routing of correspondence, filing systems, and storage of files and records.
Selecting and applying accepted analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification and consideration of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature.
Researching and/or analyzing stable or simple administrative and/or program issues.
Interpreting established and pertinent regulations and organizational policies, management principles, administrative rules, and staffing guidelines.
Assisting in the resolution of complex program issues and communicates solutions or answers. Advising on the resolution of well-precedented program and/or administrative issues.

NOTE: Your resume must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.

-OR-

Substitution of Education for Experience
You may substitute education for experience at this grade level by possessing one of following:
 
Master's or equivalent graduate degree
2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree
LL.B. or J.D., if related
-OR-

Combination of Education and Experience
You may qualify at this grade level if you have a combination of education and experience (i.e. 6 months specialized experience and over 18 graduate level credits).

NOTE: Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify for the next grade level. You must submit a copy of your transcripts for review.
 I possess the one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in federal service (GS-7) or public or private sector equivalent performing the duties mentioned above.
 I possess one of the educational substitutions mentioned above.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described above.
 My experience and/or education is less than that described above.


2.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration of this position.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙