Position Title
AUDITOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12903270-AR-T5-026-001 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a permanent presently employed excepted federal technician in the New Mexico Army National Guard?
(YOU MUST BE A PERMANENT PRESENTLY EMPLOYED EXCEPTED FEDERAL TECHNICIAN IN THE NEW MEXICO ARMY NATIONAL GUARD TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess ONE of the following:

A. Degree: Accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.

OR

B. Combination of education and experience: At least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:

1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; or

2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination

 I possess "A"
 I possess "B"
 I possess BOTH "A" and "B"


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


3.
Skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


4.
Skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


5.
Ability to comprehend and/or apply problem solving and negotiating techniques.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙