Position Title
CLUB MANAGER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0496 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one-year of specialized experience as a club manager or a manager of a food and beverage operation?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience overseeing a food and beverage operation?
 Oversaw an individual restaurant or facility (Private sector)
 Oversaw an individual restaurant or facility (DOD)
 Food industry work experience, but have not overseen an individual restaurant or facility (Private sector or DOD)
 No experience


3.
Do you have experience supervising and managing employees at different position levels?
 5+ years
 3 – 5 years
 1 – 3 years
 No experience


4.
Do you have Knowledge and Experience managing in accordance with restaurant policies, regulations, administrative practices and procedures?
 5+ years
 3-5 years
 1-3 years
 No experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙