Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12855775 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Dec 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


4.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an Administrative Support Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Are you able to communicate clearly and effectively both verbally and in writing with various levels of management and clients?
 I have excellent verbal and written communication skills.
 I have good verbal and written communication skills.
 I have limited experience with verbal and written communication.


2.
What is your experience level of procedural duties in support of the office? To include preparing routine and non-routine reports from information readily available, scheduling and making arrangements for meetings, updating or revising existing databases or spreadsheets, etc.
 More than four (4) years' experience in the above.
 Two to four (2-4) years' experience in the above.
 One to two (1-2) years' experience in the above.
 Less than one year experience in the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


3.
What is your experience in administrative functions? To include excellent typing skills, ability to use a computer with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, database and presentation software.
 More than four (4) years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheet, database and presentation software.
 Two to four (2-4) years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheet, database and presentation software.
 One to two (1-2) years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheet, database and presentation software.
 Less than one years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheet, database and presentation software.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.

Please select all database(s), software(s), and platform(s) that you have proficient experience using.
 A. Spreadsheet (Microsoft Excel)
 B. Word processing (Microsoft Word)
 C. Email applications (Microsoft Outlook, Gmail)
 D. Presentation software (Microsoft PowerPoint)
 E. Internet Browsers (Internet Explorer/Firefox/Google Chrome)
 F. None of the above


5.
To your current knowledge, what is the mission, functions, and programs of the Fleet and Family Support Center?


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙