Position Title
Supervisory Park Ranger (Interpretation)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1542-GRPO-26-13007260-EX Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a member of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe and are you Tribal Preference Eligible: Means a person of American Indian descent who is a recognized member of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. Member reservations are:
1.Grand Portage; 2. Leech Lake; 3. Mille Lacs; 4. White Earth; 5. Boise Forte; and 6. Fond du Lac.

An applicant or employee claiming Tribal Preference must submit with the application any one of the following three forms of verification.
1) Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Form 5-4432 entitled Verification of Indian Preference for Employment: An applicant may submit a copy of a properly completed and signed BIA certification Form 5-4432 verifying that he/she is a recognized member of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe.

2) Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Letter of Enrollment - An applicant may submit a letter or equivalent form from the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, as authorized by P.L. 93-638 and tribal resolution 37-90.

3) Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Identification card - An applicant may submit a photocopy (front and back) of his/her Identification Card.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualification Requirements for Supervisory Park Ranger (Interpretation) GS-0025-11. (Screen-Out)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the Supervisory Park Ranger, GS-0025-11 position. Please read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

The resume or application materials you submit for this announcement must support the answer you claim under this and other questions. If not, you will be found to be not qualified, or your score will be lowered.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience. Specialized experience is defined as experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes coordinating, managing, or directing interpretive programs; developing long-range program plans; creating educational programs; managing interpretive staff; or performing other similar work. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Note: You must include hours per week worked.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience as described above, but I have at least three full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education, a Ph.D., or an equivalent doctoral degree in a directly-related field such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified above may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in this position. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide a copy of your transcripts. Your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty if you are selected.
 Equivalent Combination of Graduate Education and Specialized Experience: I have not completed one full year of specialized experience as described above or three years of graduate study, or a doctoral degree in a field directly related to the work of this position as shown above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. For example, I have six months of the specialized experience described above (50% of the experience requirement), and 45 semester hours or 68 quarter hours of directly related graduate-level college study in an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙