Position Title
Human Resources Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12997521 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the position of NAF Human Resources Assistant NF-0203-03. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Answers must be supported by resume.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience performing technical and administrative support work in human resources? (Your resume must clearly document that you possess at least one year of this specialized experience).
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience performing technical HR assistant duties. My experience includes processing personnel/payroll actions; drafting job announcements or processing applicant packages; explaining employee benefits, policies, or procedures; and utilizing HR information systems to input, track, and retrieve personnel data.
 I possess some experience performing administrative support duties, but less than one year of specialized experience in human resources support as described above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


2.
Please select ALL the Human Resources Information System(s) that you have utilized to include recruitment tools, payroll systems and background check programs, etc.
 A. E-QIP
 B. ADP
 C. KRONOS
 D. FEDHR
 E. SAP HR
 F. USA Staffing
 G. Other system not listed but documented on resume.
 H. Does not apply.


3.
My experience in the area of recruitment/staffing of government employees can best be described as:
 I have more than two (2) years private sector experience with the above.
 I have less than two (2) years private sector experience with the above.
 I have more than two (2) years APF (GS) experience with the above.
 I have less than two (2) years APF (GS) experience with the above.
 I have more than two (2) years Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) experience with the above.
 I have less than two (2) years Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) experience with the above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
My experience onboarding new employees, to include initiating background investigations, fingerprinting, creating OPF's etc. can best be described as:
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with the above.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above.
 I have three (3) or more years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience.


5.
How many years of experience do you possess grading applicants, validating resumes, and using this data to create hiring certificates?
 I have less than one (1) year of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I have between three (3) and four (4) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I have more than four (4) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I do not have this experience.


6.
Please select ALL additional systems that you have utilized or are familiar with within the Department of Defense (DoD)
 A. AMAG
 B. CITRIX
 C. ESAMS
 D. TWMS
 E. E-VERIFY
 F. CNIC LMS
 G. G2
 H. Other systems not listed but documented in resume.
 I. None.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙