Position Title
Medical Support Assistant (Advanced)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-13052678-26-HV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Dec 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Greenfield, MA
 B. Northampton, MA
 C. Springfield, MA
 D. Worcester, MA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


6.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please indicate the location(s) you are interested in working at. The list below is broken down regionally by VISN (Veterans Integrated Service Network). For details regarding the specific facilities within each VISN please click here.
 A. VISN 1: VA England Healthcare System (ME, VT, NH, MA, CT, RI)
 B. VISN 2: New York/New Jersey VA Health Care Network (NY, NJ)
 C. VISN 4: VA Healthcare - VISN 4 (PA, DE)
 D. VISN 5: VA Capitol Health Care Network (DC, MD, WV)
 E. VISN 6: VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network (VA, NC)
 F. VISN 7: VA Southeast Network (AL, GA, SC)
 G. VISN 8: VA Sunshine Healthcare Network (FL, PR, Virgin Islands)
 H. VISN 9: VA MidSouth Healthcare Network (KY, TN)
 I. VISN 10: VA Healthcare System
 J. VISN 12: VA Great Lakes Health Care System
 K. VISN 15: VA Heartland Network
 L. VISN 16: South Central VA Health Care Network
 M. VISN 17: VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network
 N. VISN 19: Rocky Mountain Network
 O. VISN 20: Northwest Network
 P. VISN 21: Sierra Pacific Network
 Q. VISN 22: Desert Pacific Healthcare Network
 R. VISN 23: VA Midwest Health Care Network


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Medical Support Assistant position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents as we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Select YES or NO to answer the following questions for the BASIC REQUIREMENTS regarding the occupational series for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current permanent Veterans Health Administration employee?

This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: United States Citizenship - Non-citizens may only be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Policy.

Are you a citizen of the United States of America?
 Yes
 No


3.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: English Language Proficiency - In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


4.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Education Requirement - High school diploma, General Education Development equivalency certificate, or proficiency certificate from a State or territorial-level Board or Department of Education.

Do you possess one of the following:
 A. High school diploma or transcript (including homeschooling)
 B. General Education Development (GED) certificate
 C. Proficiency certificate issued by a State or Territorial Board or Department of Education
 D. Post-high school education
 E. You do not have one of the education levels listed above, but you were in the Medical Support Assistant occupation (GS-0679) on a permanent appointment with the Department of Veterans Affairs as of February 5, 2026, meeting all qualification requirements as part of the grandfathering provision.
 F. None of the above


Select YES or NO to answer the following questions for the GRADE REQUIREMENTS regarding the occupational series for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Medical Support Assistant (Advanced), GS-6 Grade Requirements: 

In addition to the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.

Do you possess the requirement stated above?
 Yes
 No


6.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
(Applicants must demonstrate their experience clear and specific in their resumes to receive full credit. We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.)
 

Advanced knowledge of the technical health care process (including, but not limited to, scheduling across interdisciplinary coordinated care delivery and/or care in the community models and patient health care portals) as it relates to access to care.
Advanced knowledge of policies and procedures associated with interdisciplinary coordinated care delivery and/or care in the community operational activities that affect patient flow, and patient support care administrative functions to include, but not limited to appointment cycles, outside patient referrals, follow-up care, overbooking, provider availability, etc.
Advanced knowledge of medical terminology due to the technical nature of language utilized by clinicians.
Ability to collaborate and communicate with a wide range of medical clinicians across multiple disciplines (e.g., medical doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers, clinical pharmacists, and nursing staff) to accomplish team goal setting to ensure medical care to patients is met.
Ability to independently set priorities and organize work to meet deadlines, ensuring compliance with established processes, policies, and regulations. 
Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, electronically, by phone,  in person, and in writing, with internal and external customers. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels, as well as resolving patient concerns.

Can you demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) for Medical Support Assistant (Advanced) as described above?

***PLEASE NOTE: This experience must be documented in your resume.***
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙