Position Title
Electrician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
ML-12723791-25-AM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to do the work of an Electrician without more than normal supervision. This includes, but is not limited to: Thorough knowledge of electrical systems and components such as various gauges, sizes, and types of wire, conduit, couplings, fittings, relays, boxes, circuit breakers, and other electrical devices; Knowledge of federal, state, and local regulations, governing codes, engineering principles and trade practices, including a thorough knowledge of the National Electric Code; Knowledge of a variety of electrical equipment, their operation, common practices and methods, and the steps needed to maintain and repair the various pieces of equipment and systems. Knowledge of standard formulas, shop mathematics, trade theories and industrial practices in calculating needed materials and problem solving; Ability to troubleshoot, trace and locate problems and complete repairs and reinstallation on a variety of complete systems as well as any parts of these systems; Knowledge of the operation and installation of a variety of complete electrical systems and equipment, such as series, parallel, and compound circuits for single and multiple phase alternating current of varying voltage, amperage, and frequency; wiring systems in industrial applications and in buildings; and power or regulating and control circuits and distribution panels to industrial machinery, and other electrical equipment; Ability to use of hand tools; power tools, such as cable pullers, hydraulic benders, and pipe threading machines; and a wide variety of test equipment, for example, meggers, multimeters, frequency meters, watt meters, power factor meters, vibro-grounds, phase rotation meters, audio tone location equipment, high potential testers, ground fault interrupter testing equipment, recording ammeters, circuit analyzers, circuit breaker testers, resistance bridges, and cathodic protection test sets; Basic familiarity with electronics to electronic components, such as resistors, capacitors, and transistors; operate basic test equipment such as signal generators, signal tracers, and oscilloscopes; and may read
schematics of uncomplicated assemblies to determine locations of defective parts. This is a screen-out element. Failure to meet a minimum level will result in an ineligible rating. Select only ONE letter.
 I have vocational training, or I have completed an apprenticeship.
 I have experience performing the duties of an Electrician under close supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of an Electrician under normal supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of an Electrician independently under limited supervision.
 I have experience as an Electrician, or I am consulted by other trade workers in difficult situations because of my expertise in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙