Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12831274-26-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 10, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5
6
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Health Technician (Pedorthist).  The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-07. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-03 to GS-07. 


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
BASIC QUALIFICATION:
Credential.
(1) Candidates must be board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).

OR

(2) Credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).

OR

(3) Exception for Non-Credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist).
(a) Non-credentialed individuals who have successfully completed a Board for Certification in Pedorthics (BCP), Commission on Accreditation of Pedorthic Education (CAPE), National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPE), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or American Board for Certification of Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC) approved pedorthic certificate program and otherwise meet ABC's eligibility requirements for certification may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).
(b) Non-credentialed individuals shall only provide care under the clinical oversight of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or orthotist/prosthetist at or above the full performance level.
(c) Non-credentialed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.
NOTE: Failure to Obtain Certification. In all cases, Health Aid (Pedorthist) must actively pursue meeting requirements for certification starting from the date of their appointment. At the time of appointment, the supervisor will provide the Health Aid (Pedorthist) with the written requirements for certification, including the time by which the certification must be obtained and the consequences for not becoming certified by the deadline. Failure to obtain certification during this time period may result in termination of employment.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Provide the following information regarding your Certification.

Name on Certificate:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete certificate number:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS. All individuals assigned to this occupation must meet all the basic qualification requirements above and all qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment.

GS 03:

(1) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.

(2) Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve in a Health Aid (Pedorthist) entry level developmental position and work under the clinical oversight and direction of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist or certified prosthetist orthotist (CPO). They receive entry level assignments designed to build upon the base knowledge, skills and abilities. The Health Aid (Pedorthist) receives detailed and specific training and instruction to develop proficiency in essential occupational tasks such as taking measurements, patient communication and fabrication and fitting of simple devices. The work is performed under close clinical oversight with well established procedures. They use common office software to perform basic computing tasks such as communication via email and manipulation of documents. Health Technician (Pedorthist) comply with universal precaution procedures.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS 04:

(1) Experience. Six months of experience demonstrating knowledge, skills and abilities associated with pedorthic practice equivalent to the next lower grade (See above GS 03 Assignment)

(2) Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of patient related psychology, for example age-related competency, patient, and caregiver stressors.
(b) Knowledge of foundational sciences related to development of pedorthic treatment, for example anatomy, biomechanics, and pathology.
(c) Knowledge of materials science commonly used in fabrication, for example adhesives, plastics, composites, metals, and leather.
(d) Knowledge of regulations and procedures to ensure patient privacy.
(e) Ability to assign Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding to pedorthic devices.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS 05:

(1) Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. (see above GS 04 KSA)
(2) Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Skill in conducting patient assessments.
(b) Skill in developing simple pedorthic devices (includes assessment, measurement, selection, and fitting).
(c) Ability to consult with providers and allied health colleagues regarding treatment.
(d) Ability to assess device to ensure structural soundness and compliance with prescription and fit.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS 06:

(1) Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. (see above GS 05 KSA).
(2) Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Skill in developing a follow up treatment plan for complex pedorthic device types.
(b) Ability to process paperwork for pedorthic devices being produced and fitted by vendor.
(c) Ability to place administrative orders with procurement staff for treatment modalities. (d) Ability to assess device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
(e) Ability to process consults/orders.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


7.
GS 07:

(1) Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (see above GS 06 KSA).

(2) Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Skill in designing advanced pedorthic devices.
(b) Skill in assessing device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
(c) Skill in written communication.
(d) Skill in oral communication.
(e) Skill in fabrication of all pedorthic device types. (f) Skill in designing innovative pedorthic devices to include new and emerging technology.
Do you possess the above requirement?
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision.

Employees in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement, performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and credentialing/certification, where applicable. The following provisions apply to employees who do not meet all the qualification requirements:

(1) Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in a supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) Employees in an occupation that requires a credentialing only at higher grade levels must meet the credentialing requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels.
(3) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(4) Employees who are converted to title 38 hybrid status under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
(5) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtains credentialing/certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙