Position Title
SUPPLY TECHNICIAN
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12914686- AR-26-068 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Short Essay Questions (6 items)
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Employement Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at USPFO Supply and Services Division
 AOC 2: NG employees in the USPFO (This includes Internal Revenue, Contracting, Resource Management, and DPI)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E8 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training in a variety of operations or situations concerned with substance or content of supply actions, requiring ability to decide course of action to take, considering the circumstances or conditions encountered? Do you have experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 12 months experience, education, or training which demonstrates a thorough knowledge of governing supply regulations, policies, procedures, and instructions applicable to the specific assignment? Do you have experience conducting extensive searches for required information; reconstructing records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for activities involving specialized or unique supplies, equipment, or parts? Do you possess experience performing routine aspects of supply work based on practical knowledge of standard procedures, where assignments include individual case problems related to a limited segment in one of the major areas of supply management?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative who is employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


4.
Have you ever been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙