Position Title
Occupational Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12892364-26-DB Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for this vacancy. Your application must provide acceptable proof of your status. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) for each of the following items to identify which of the following descriptions applies to you.


1.
English Language Proficiency -
Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education -
Candidates must have an associate's degree in occupational therapy from a college or university accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA).
or
Completion of a military training program in an OTA program accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE).

Do you possess the required education?
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification:
OTAs must have written documentation that they have passed the entry-level certification examination for OTAs administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT).

Do you have the required certification?
 Yes
 No


4.
Licensure:
OTAs must hold a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a State, Territory, a Commonwealth of the United States (i.e. Puerto Rico) or in the District of Columbia.

Are you licensed to practice occupational therapy in a State, Territory, a Commonwealth of the United States (i.e. Puerto Rico) or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


EXPERIENCE: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for this vacancy. Your application must provide acceptable proof of your experience. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) for each of the following items to identify which of the following descriptions applies to you.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Experience, GS-6 Level (Developmental 1) -
In addition to the basic requirements, One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and mist demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of evidence-based occupational therapy practice.
Knowledge of basic group techniques and interpersonal communication
Skill in written communication to document data, progress/change in status, discharge status, and patient or caregiver education.
Skill in oral communication to document data, progress/change in status, discharge status, and patient or caregiver education.
Ability to assist in the development of treatment goals/objectives.
Ability to implement a patient care plan incorporating activity analysis theory.

Do you possess the experience as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Experience, GS-7 Level (Developmental 2) -
In addition to the basic requirements, 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in promoting occupational therapy services effectively, providing training and interventions within the assigned areas
Ability to perform in depth chart review to identify treatment goals and implement treatment plans.
Ability to use problem-solving skills when providing therapeutic interventions for patients.
Ability to provide multi-step instructions to patients, caregivers and other health care professionals adapting instructions to meet the learning needs of the individual.

Do you possess the experience as described above?
 Yes
 No


7.
Experience, GS-8 Level (Full Performance Level) -In addition to the basic requirements, 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level.
In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to implement delegated assessments.
Ability to provide reports of observations and patient performance.
Ability to use complex therapeutic techniques and interventions, utilizing problem-solving skills to maximize patient's functional status.
Ability to modify therapeutic interventions for simple and complex cases with a wide range of diagnoses and disabilities.
Ability to recommend complex adaptive and assistive devices and durable medical equipment.
Ability to consult with health care practitioners about the patient's treatment plan and the occupational therapy scope of practice and service

Do you possess the experience as described above?
 Yes
 No


WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on resume and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Later steps in selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.

RESUME REMINDER - Your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume and supporting documentation. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙