Position Title
Senior Attorney-Advisor (General) (Office of Inspector General)
Agency
Export-Import Bank of the United States
Announcement Number
EXIM-26-EXE-12982895MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


Assessment 1
For items 1 through 5 please read the following statements carefully. Your responses to the following questions will determine whether you will be eligible for this position or not. If you respond "No" to any question in this section, you will not be eligible for consideration for this position.


1.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire will be true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire will be true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


2.
This position requires a Basic Qualification Requirement. Do you possess a Juris Doctor (J.D) degree from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have been admitted to the Bar and authorized to practice as an attorney under the laws of a state, territory of the United states, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No


We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


3.
For the GS-14: Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-13 level in the Federal service? Specialized experience is that which has equipped the applicant with the competencies to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience for this position includes experience in item (1) Providing legal counsel and advisory services on matters involving federal programs, operations, or oversight functions.; AND at least one of the following items: (2) Advising leadership, program officials, and stakeholders on legal issues related to audits, investigations, inspections, evaluations, or organizational operations; (3) Interpreting and applying federal statutes, regulations, or policies, including appropriations law, procurement law, federal personnel law, ethics requirements, or administrative law; (4) Conducting legal research and analysis, and preparing written legal opinions, memoranda, reports, or other official documents; (5) Supporting administrative, civil, or criminal litigation, including case development, coordination with the Department of Justice or other equivalent entities, or legal strategy; (6) Providing legal guidance on sensitive, high-visibility, or cross-cutting issues affecting agency authority, programs, or resources.

 Yes
 No


4.
For the GS-15: Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-14 level in the Federal service? Specialized experience is that which has equipped the applicant with the competencies to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience for this position includes experience in item (1) Providing legal counsel and advisory services on matters involving federal programs, operations, or oversight functions; AND at least one of the following items: (2) Advising senior leadership, program officials, and stakeholders on legal issues related to audits, investigations, inspections, evaluations, or organizational operations; (3) Interpreting and applying federal statutes, regulations, or policies, including appropriations law, procurement law, federal personnel law, ethics requirements, or administrative law; (4) Conducting legal research and analysis, and preparing written legal opinions, memoranda, reports, or other official documents; (5) Conducting administrative, civil, or criminal litigation, including case development, coordination with the Department of Justice or other equivalent entities, or legal strategy; (6) Providing legal guidance on sensitive, high-visibility, or cross-cutting issues affecting agency authority, programs, or resources.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙