Position Title
Automotive Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-1611-GATE-25-12768294-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position. For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Be sure to describe your experience that supports your responses to the statement below, in your resume or application materials. It is important that the application package submitted, including a resume and other supporting documents, clearly shows how you possess the experience and skills you claim in this questionnaire. Each of your responses must be clearly supported by your training, and/or specific work experience that you describe in your application packet (resume and other supporting documents). If not, your score will be lowered, or you will be found not qualified.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for an Automotive Worker position. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex automotive worker tasks, including independently performing Automotive Worker duties in the park automotive repair shop and in the field including performing automotive and equipment repairs, using common tools of the trade, using diagnostic skills to establish procedures for repairing electrical, fuel, steering/suspension, driveline, braking and other issues causing failure in automotive systems.
 I am able to perform the full range of duties in the park automotive repair shop and in the field including performing automotive and equipment repairs, using common tools of the trade, using diagnostic skills to establish procedures for repairing electrical, fuel, steering/suspension, driveline, braking and other issues causing failure in automotive systems.
 I am able to perform the common duties in the park automotive repair shop and in the field including performing automotive and equipment repairs and using common tools of the trade.
 I am able to perform the simple duties in the park automotive repair shop and in the field using common tools of the trade.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above.


2.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙