Position Title
Supervisory Electronics Technician
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
ST-12850750-26-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position; and have you never held the full performance level of this position?

 -OR-
 
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level than the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
 
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above.


2.
If you selected, "I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above", please provide an explanation. If you provided a response of A above, please type N/A.


3.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes the experience and/ or education that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience and/ or education to be found qualified.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Electronics Technician at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year (12-months) of specialized experience equivalent to a GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which demonstrates my ability to: 1) Provides technical and analytical advice on Land Mobile Radio System and Network; 2) Evaluate the effectiveness of a network system and its security measures; 3) Managing, directing, and implementing new projects to enhance a radio program and its infrastructure; and 4) Plans and assigns work to be accomplished by subordinates.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙