Position Title
Health System Specialist - Supervisory
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12894123-26-WM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Read the announcement and all items in this questionnaire with care, review your Resume/CV for accuracy in detailing how your knowledge, skills, and abilities compliment the announced position. Failure to answer all questions may result in an ineligible rating. Contradictions between your application and question responses may lead to an ineligible rating. Verify you have uploaded and attached any additional documents needed to support statements in your Resume/CV. (SF-50/Transcripts/License/Certification) DO NOT include photographs/diplomas/SF-50s for awards/expired license or expired certification; these documents will not be considered. Initial questions are basic requirements apply to all experience levels of the announced position. Additional questions specifically relate to the announced grade level(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Individual Occupational Requirements
Undergraduate and Graduate Education:

Major study -- hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration.

OR

Specialized Experience:

(for positions above GS-5): Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following:

Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems;
Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and
Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.

Special Provision for Inservice Placement:

Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included:

Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements;
Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and
Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program.
Have you accomplished either of these requirements?
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-13 grade level.

In addition, applicants must meet the following:

GS-13 grade level: One year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the federal service); that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to:
Serve as a subject matter expert in delivery of healthcare relating to the implementation and execution of initiatives, programs, and projects. Plan, coordinate, and integrate all assigned activities. Perform critical program review and analysis across a broad spectrum of initiatives and issues, such as healthcare delivery strategic planning, facility utilization, economic adjustments, and personnel impacts.
Formulate, articulate and clearly state the Medical Center's position on complex, interrelated, and sensitive issues to senior management within Medical Center.
Exercise a broad range of sound management principles and judgment in the analysis of unique problems and issues pertaining to external and internal influences and changes and their impact on the delivery of health care services to eligible Veterans. Research, analyze, quantify, develop, validate, justify, and clearly articulate background data and documentation which are used to support short and long range health care issues.
Work with senior level staff and program managers in: Medical Center, VISN, VHA, VA and other Federal agencies, or other groups, to evaluate program and project success and opportunities for improvement.
Develop methods, criteria, and policies to be applied to program and project issues, using a high degree of initiative and resourcefulness, as well as an overall understanding of the strategic planning within the Medical Center in developing sound policy consistent with VISN and VA Central Office direction and guidance.
Establish overall milestones, conduct meetings, and consolidate staff comments for responses to higher leadership. Utilize an expert knowledge of the healthcare operations and its management, accounting, and reporting in conjunction with a comprehensive knowledge of VHA Support Service Center (VSSC) and other data systems to support the integration of resource requirements and programming.
Direct administrative and clinical activities of the clinical service including budget and fiscal management, human resource management, strategic planning and program management and evaluation, assuring that the clinical and administrative functions are integrated in order to provide optimum utilization of resources. Participate in top management discussions, decisions, policymaking and provides program direction to other executives, managers and assigned personnel.
Provide administrative assistance toward meeting federal regulations and accreditation standards i.e., Joint Commission, CAP and SOARS. Assist with Joint Commission mandated activities, including Identifying important aspects of care, developing Indicators, establishing thresholds for evaluation, participating in the review process, evaluating, and analyzing data, identifying opportunities to Improve, and Initiating action when problem arises.

Can you demonstrate one year of specialized experience as stated above?

 Yes
 No


3.
The following is a Certification of Understanding. Response to this statement is mandatory. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.

Please read and respond.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).

I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Are you able to attest to the statement above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙