Position Title
Child Development Center Director w/CYP Oversight
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
EUR 26-019 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Saturday, December 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child Development Center Director w/ CYP Oversight - Small CDC. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in the related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field [24 higher level semester hours] appropriate to the position [see above]) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD..
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child development programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


6.
Have you ever held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program.


7.
What size is the DoD Child Development Center (CDC) program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large DoD CDC program (200 children and above).
 I have experience managing a medium DoD CDC program (101 to 199 children).
 I have experience managing a small DoD CDC program (up to 100 children).
 I have no experience in the above.


8.
Do you have programming and management experience in one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDCs), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDHs), Youth Programs (YPs), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have programming and management experience in all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙