Position Title
Pathways Recent Graduate Claims and Program Representative
Agency
Railroad Retirement Board
Announcement Number
260036PW-13001022-YA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Des Moines, IA
 B. Wichita, KS
 C. Louisville, KY
 D. Baltimore, MD
 E. Boston, MA
 F. Detroit, MI
 G. Duluth, MN
 H. Kansas City, MO
 I. Billings, MT
 J. Albuquerque, NM
 K. Albany, NY
 L. Buffalo, NY
 M. Charlotte, NC
 N. Harrisburg, PA
 O. Pittsburgh, PA
 P. Salt Lake City, UT
 Q. Richmond, VA
 R. Seattle, WA
 S. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that most closely and accurately describes your education and/or experience and demonstrates your ability to perform Claims and Program Representative work at the GS-07 level.

 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 level that has (a) provided skill in conducting personal telephone contacts with a wide range of individuals which demonstrated (1) the ability to explain complex technical or regulatory information, (2) the ability to conduct interviews in a way that establishes good relations while obtaining or providing relevant information, and (3) the ability to recognize and overcome attitudes or emotions that hinder effective communications, or (b) technical, investigative, professional, or quasi-legal work providing a good working knowledge of laws, regulations and procedures governing appropriate benefit programs.
 I have one full year of graduate level education from an accredited college or university in any field.
 I qualify under the Superior Academic Achievement provision (see announcement for qualifications).
 I have a combination of experience as described in letter A above, and education as described in letter B above, which, when combined, is equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirement.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above choices.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that most closely and accurately describes your education and/or experience and demonstrates your ability to perform Claims and Program Representative work at the GS-09 level.
 I have one year of specialized experience in Interviewing applicants for benefits and guiding them through the claims-taking process, including reviewing evidence, determining eligibility, and/or adjudication for federal, state, or local administered benefits, such as: disability, unemployment, sickness, survivor, retirement, Medicare, education, housing, medical and/or veterans benefits.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in one of the following fields: General Psychology (MGP), Sociology (MAS), Social Science (MSS), Education (Med), Social Work (MSW), Communications (MAC or MSC), English (MAE), and Leadership (MSL).
 I have a combination of experience as described in letter A above, and education as described in letter B above, which, when combined, is equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirement.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above choices.


3.
Are you able to read and fluently speak Spanish? (This is desirable, but this information will not be used in ranking candidates.)

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙