Position Title
Supply Clerk - Kona Winds Complex
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26303 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to work a Part-time work schedule. A part-time schedule describes work performed between 20 to 34 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Food and Beverage Department at the Kona Winds Complex in JBPHH, HI. This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary. The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
How many years of work experience do you have with inventory and supply management?
 1 or more years of work experience with inventory and supply management.
 Less than 1 year of work experience with inventory and supply management.


2.
What is your level of work experience in the use of personal computers and various software programs involving word processing and spreadsheet software?
 2+ years of experience in the use of personal computers and various software programs involving word processing and spreadsheet software.
 1 - 2 years of experience in the use of personal computers and various software programs involving word processing and spreadsheet software.
 Less than 1 year of experience in the use of personal computers and various software programs involving word processing and spreadsheet software.


3.
Do you have the ability to handle, control and account for large amounts of cash? Select the statement below that most closely matches the skill level that you have documented in your resume.

 Two plus years of documented experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.
 One to two years of documented experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.
 Less than one year of documented experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.
 No direct experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.


4.
Select the response below that best describes your level of administrative/clerical experience.

 More than 2 years of job related administrative/clerical experience.
 More than 1 year of job related administrative/clerical experience.
 Less than 1 year of job related administrative/clerical experience.
 No job related administrative/clerical experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙