Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12931962-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


7.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager position with Department of the Army.

Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Manager at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service which includes: 1) Expertly directing Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) activities for annual Civil Works Budget Process. AN 2) Advanced proficiency in CEFMS, CWIFD, and enterprise budgeting tools to lead the formulation and execution of the annual civil works budget. AND 3) Review fiscal compliance, certify funds, and optimization of the allocation of resources across a complex multi-project programs.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.

Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgment Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to cheese the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. There are no right or wrong answers. Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are developing the annual Civil Works program and discover that three high-priority construction projects have submitted revised cost estimates that collectively exceed your allocated budget by $15 million. The Division Commander expects the program submission next week, and you must balance competing stakeholder interests while maintaining program integrity. What is your best course of action?
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of all project cost increases, validate the estimates through technical review, develop alternative funding scenarios with different priority rankings, and present options to leadership with clear justifications for each approach.
 Review the cost estimate changes for technical accuracy, prioritize projects based on established criteria and strategic objectives, and recommend deferring lower-priority elements to future years while maintaining core project functionality.
 Request additional funding authority from higher headquarters while simultaneously developing a reduced-scope alternative that maintains the most critical project components within the current budget allocation.
 Accept the cost increases as submitted and recommend reducing the scope of other program elements to accommodate the overruns, focusing primarily on maintaining the three high-priority projects.
 Submit the program as originally planned without the cost increases and address the funding shortfall during execution through reprogramming actions and supplemental requests.


2.
During development of new start recommendations for the upcoming fiscal year, you identify five potential projects that meet basic eligibility criteria. However, you can only recommend three projects due to funding constraints. Two projects have strong local sponsor support but limited national significance, while three projects align with national priorities but face local opposition. How do you proceed?
 Apply the established selection and prioritizing criteria systematically to all five projects, document the evaluation process thoroughly, and recommend the three projects that best meet the criteria regardless of political considerations.
 Evaluate each project against national priorities and local benefits, conduct stakeholder consultations to understand concerns, and recommend projects that provide the best balance of strategic value and implementation feasibility.
 Prioritize projects based on their alignment with administration Program development guidance and chief’s priorities, while documenting the rationale for not selecting projects with strong local support.
 Recommend the three projects with the strongest local sponsor support and established funding commitments, as these are most likely to proceed successfully through the authorization process.
 Request guidance from Division headquarters on which projects to prioritize and defer the recommendation until political considerations can be fully evaluated by higher authority.


3.
You are reviewing five potential new start candidates for civil works studies submitted by project delivery teams across the District. All five projects have local sponsor support and documented water resource needs, but your analysis reveals that two projects lack completed feasibility-level cost estimates, one has an unresolved federal interest determination, and the remaining two fully meet eligibility and selection criteria. The annual budget Engineering Circular allows for only two new start recommendations. How do you proceed?
 Recommend the two projects that fully satisfy eligibility and selection criteria, document the specific deficiencies preventing the other three from advancing, and provide project teams with clear guidance on requirements needed for future consideration.
 Evaluate all five projects against the established criteria, recommend the two compliant projects, and initiate a corrective action process for the deficient projects to strengthen their candidacy for the next programming cycle.
 Recommend the two compliant projects and flag the remaining three for expedited review, requesting that project teams resolve outstanding deficiencies within 60 days in case a programming opportunity arises mid-year.
 Recommend the two compliant projects along with the project that only lacks a federal interest determination, reasoning that this deficiency is administrative and likely to be resolved before funds would be obligated.
 Recommend all five projects to higher headquarters and allow Division staff to make final eligibility determinations, since the District lacks authority to exclude projects with documented local sponsor support.


4.
Three days before a critical congressional hearing, you discover a $2.3 million discrepancy in the operation and maintenance budget justification sheet that affects testimony data. The error stems from outdated cost factors in the automated system, and correcting it will require extensive validation of related budget line items. The Division Commander is scheduled to testify, and you are the principal technical advisor. How do you handle this situation?
 Immediately notify leadership of the discrepancy, conduct rapid but thorough validation of all affected budget items, lead the program analysts in preparing corrected justification sheets with clear documentation of changes, and brief the Division Commander on the corrections and their implications.
 Quickly verify the scope of the error, prepare corrected budget justifications for the most critical items, and develop talking points for the Division Commander that acknowledge the correction while maintaining confidence in the overall program.
 Validate the discrepancy and its impact, prepare a supplemental budget correction for submission after the hearing, and brief the Division Commander on the issue with recommendations for addressing questions about budget accuracy.
 Correct the obvious error in the automated system, update the affected budget line items, and provide the Division Commander with revised testimony materials without detailed explanation of the changes.
 Note the discrepancy for future correction but proceed with the original testimony materials to avoid confusion, planning to address the issue through subsequent budget amendments.


5.
During the budget defense process, a congressional subcommittee questions the cost-effectiveness of a $45 million flood risk management project, citing a recent study that suggests alternative approaches. You have 48 hours to prepare a comprehensive response that addresses their concerns while defending the project's inclusion in the program. What is your best approach?
 Analyze the alternative approaches referenced by the subcommittee, prepare a detailed comparison of costs and benefits, validate your project's economic justification with current data, and develop a response that addresses specific concerns while demonstrating superior value.
 Review the referenced study thoroughly, prepare economic and technical analyses comparing your approach to the alternatives, and develop talking points that highlight the unique advantages and strategic importance of your project.
 Gather the study PDT for input on supporting data of the project's benefits and cost-effectiveness, prepare responses to likely follow-up questions, and coordinate with technical experts to ensure accurate representation of the project's value proposition.
 Focus on the project's compliance with established criteria and policies, emphasize its importance to local stakeholders, and prepare materials highlighting the consequences of not proceeding with the project.
 Request additional time to prepare a comprehensive response and recommend deferring detailed discussion of the project until the next hearing cycle when more thorough analysis can be completed.


6.
You are preparing budget justifications for submission to Congress and discover that two construction projects have experienced significant scope changes that affect their benefit-cost ratios. One project's ratio has improved due to updated economic assumptions, while another has declined due to environmental mitigation requirements. Both changes occurred after the initial program submission. How do you address this in your justifications?
 Document both changes thoroughly with supporting analysis, update the benefit-cost calculations using current methodologies, prepare clear explanations of the factors driving each change, and present the information transparently with recommendations for program adjustments.
 Gather the project PDT and validate the scope changes and their economic impacts, prepare updated justifications that reflect current project conditions, and develop explanatory materials that demonstrate continued program value despite the changes.
 Analyze the net impact of both changes on the overall program, prepare justifications that acknowledge the modifications while emphasizing the strategic importance of both projects to mission accomplishment.
 Highlight the improved project while minimizing discussion of the declined project, focusing justifications on overall program benefits and the importance of maintaining construction momentum.
 Maintain the original benefit-cost ratios in the justifications to avoid confusion and address the scope changes through separate correspondence after the budget submission is complete.


7.
It is mid-October and your quarterly obligation review shows that a major flood risk management construction project has obligated only 35% of its annual funding target, well below the 60% expected at this point in the fiscal year. The project manager attributes the shortfall to delayed contractor submittals and a pending design change. Two other projects in your portfolio are performing ahead of schedule and have demonstrated capacity to absorb additional work. Fiscal year end is 12 months away, but Division headquarters has flagged the underperforming project for a program review. How do you respond?
 Analyze the root causes of the obligation shortfall, assess the delayed project's realistic recovery potential given the pending design change, evaluate the absorptive capacity of the two ahead-of-schedule projects, and develop a reprogramming recommendation with a documented rationale for Division review.
 Work with the project manager to develop a credible recovery plan for the underperforming project, prepare reprogramming options that shift a portion of funding to higher-performing projects, and present both scenarios to Division with supporting obligation data.
 Request that the project manager provide a revised obligation schedule reflecting the design change timeline, hold reprogramming decisions until the schedule impact is clearer, and prepare a status update for Division that outlines the corrective actions underway.
 Reprogram a significant portion of the delayed project's funding to the two ahead-of-schedule projects immediately to demonstrate responsiveness to Division's concern and protect the District's overall obligation rate.
 Advise Division that the shortfall is attributable to contractor performance and request that the project be excluded from the program review metrics until the design change is formally approved and a new baseline is established.


8.
During quarterly program review, you identify that a major construction project is 3 months behind schedule due to contractor performance issues, which will impact the obligation schedule for $8 million in funding. Additionally, two other projects are ahead of schedule and could absorb additional funding. The fiscal year ends in 4 months, and unobligated funds may be lost. What is your most appropriate action?
 Evaluate the delayed project's recovery potential and contractor remediation plans, analyze the accelerated projects' capacity for additional funding, develop a comprehensive reprogramming proposal that optimizes fund utilization while maintaining project integrity, and coordinate with all affected stakeholders.
 Assess the funding situation across all projects, prepare reprogramming recommendations that shift funds from the delayed project to those that can effectively utilize additional resources, coordinate with project and program managers for awareness and approval, and implement budget reallocation or carryover justifications.
 Document the schedule deviation and its funding implications, coordinate with the contractor to develop an acceleration plan, and prepare contingency reprogramming options while working to resolve the performance issues.
 Immediately reprogram the at-risk funding to the accelerated projects to ensure obligation before fiscal year end, while continuing to work with the delayed project contractor on schedule recovery.
 Request a no-year funding extension for the delayed project and maintain the current funding allocation while focusing efforts on resolving the contractor performance issues.


9.
You are preparing materials for the monthly Project Review Board briefing, which will cover execution year progress, the status of annual appropriations, and early development of the President's Budget. Two days before the briefing, a subprogram manager informs you that a significant contract award has slipped into the next quarter, which will affect the District's obligation rate and alter the funding narrative you had planned to present. Senior leadership, including the District Commander, will be in attendance. How do you handle the briefing preparation?
 Update the briefing materials to accurately reflect the contract slip and its impact on the obligation rate, prepare a clear explanation of the cause and projected recovery, and develop talking points that give leadership an honest assessment with actionable options for the path forward.
 Revise the obligation data to incorporate the slippage, include a brief analysis of contributing factors, and prepare alternative funding scenarios that leadership can consider to maintain program momentum through the remainder of the execution year.
 Present the updated obligation figures with a note on the contract slip, focus the briefing narrative on overall program health and year-to-date accomplishments, and defer detailed discussion of recovery options to a follow-up working-level meeting.
 Proceed with the original briefing materials to maintain consistency with previously reported data, note the contract slip verbally during the presentation, and commit to providing a written update to leadership within the week.
 Postpone the Project Review Board briefing by one week to allow time for the subprogram manager to resolve the contract slip and restore the original obligation trajectory before presenting to senior leadership.


10.
During preparation for the monthly Project Review Board briefing, you discover conflicting data between the automated project management system and field reports regarding the status of three O&M construction projects. The discrepancies affect both cost and schedule information that will be presented to senior leadership. The briefing is scheduled for tomorrow morning. What is your best course of action?
 Immediately contact operations personnel to verify actual project status, reconcile the data in Promis and prepare for potential re-benchmark, update the presenter notes with valid information, and prepare explanations for any data quality issues.
 Verify the most critical data points through direct contact with project sites, prepare briefing materials using the most reliable information available, and note any remaining uncertainties with plans for resolution.
 Review both data sources to identify the most likely accurate information, prepare the briefing using the best available data, and include caveats about data verification in the presentation.
 Use the automated system data for consistency with previous briefings while noting the field report discrepancies for follow-up investigation after the briefing.
 Request postponement of the briefing until all data discrepancies can be fully resolved and validated through comprehensive field verification.


11.
One of your senior program analysts has been consistently producing high-quality work but has become increasingly resistant to new automated systems and processes. This resistance is beginning to affect team morale and efficiency, as other staff members look to this employee for technical guidance. The employee has 15 years of experience and is well-respected for their technical expertise. How do you address this situation?
 Meet privately with the employee to understand their concerns about the new systems, provide additional training and support for the transition, clearly communicate performance expectations regarding system adoption, and monitor progress while recognizing their valuable contributions.
 Discuss the importance of adapting to new systems for team effectiveness, offer additional training opportunities, and work with the employee to develop a transition plan that leverages their expertise while ensuring compliance with new processes.
 Acknowledge the employee's valuable experience while explaining the necessity of new systems, provide focused training on the new processes, and establish clear expectations for system utilization with regular check-ins.
 Emphasize the mandatory nature of the new systems and the impact of their resistance on team morale, while offering support for the transition and recognizing their technical contributions in other areas.
 Assign the employee to work primarily with legacy systems and processes while other team members handle the new automated systems, allowing them to continue contributing without disrupting team dynamics.


12.
During the annual performance evaluation cycle, you discover that one of your subordinates has been struggling with complex budget analysis tasks but has not requested help. Their work quality has declined over the past six months, affecting program deliverables. The employee previously performed well in less complex assignments and appears motivated but overwhelmed. How do you handle this situation?
 Conduct a comprehensive performance discussion to identify specific skill gaps and challenges, develop a targeted training and development plan aligned with the analyst career development plan, provide additional mentoring and peer support contacts, and establish clear performance improvement goals with regular progress reviews.
 Meet with the employee to discuss performance concerns and identify areas needing improvement, arrange appropriate training opportunities, and provide closer supervision and guidance while maintaining supportive communication.
 Address the performance decline directly while offering additional training and support, adjust work assignments temporarily to build confidence, and establish more frequent feedback sessions to monitor progress.
 Document the performance issues formally, provide specific examples of needed improvements, and require the employee to develop their own improvement plan with established deadlines for progress.
 Reassign the employee to less complex tasks permanently and redistribute the budget analysis work among other team members to ensure program deliverables are met.


13.
Your Programs Management Section is facing a 20% increase in workload due to new congressional mandates, but you cannot hire additional staff due to budget constraints. Two of your five team members have expressed concerns about work-life balance, and you've noticed signs of burnout across the team. You need to maintain program quality while addressing staff welfare. What is your most appropriate approach?
 Analyze the increased workload to identify efficiency opportunities and process improvements, redistribute work based on individual strengths and capacity, explore temporary support options, and implement stress management initiatives while advocating for additional resources through proper channels.
 Conduct a thorough workload analysis to prioritize critical tasks, implement process improvements to increase efficiency utilizing PowerBi dashboards, provide flexibility in work arrangements where possible, and communicate regularly with staff about workload management and available support.
 Prioritize the most critical program elements, delegate work based on staff capabilities and availability, seek temporary assistance from other sections, and monitor team welfare while maintaining program standards.
 Focus on meeting the congressional mandates by redistributing work evenly among all staff members, provide clear priorities and deadlines, and emphasize the temporary nature of the increased workload.
 Request deadline extensions for non-critical program elements and reduce the scope of some activities to manageable levels while maintaining focus on the most important congressional requirements.


14.
One of your mid-level program analysts has strong technical skills but has not pursued any formal training or professional development in over two years. During a routine check-in, the employee mentions feeling stagnant but expresses uncertainty about which development opportunities are relevant to their career goals. A Corps-sponsored program management certification course and a budget analysis workshop are both available this fiscal year, and your section has limited training funds. How do you approach this situation?
 Discuss the employee's career interests and current skill gaps in a structured development conversation, collaboratively identify which available training aligns with both their goals and section needs, and establish a development plan with follow-up milestones to sustain momentum.
 Review the available training options with the employee, recommend the course most aligned with their current assignment and growth potential, and document the development discussion as part of their performance planning process.
 Encourage the employee to research both training opportunities independently and submit a request for the one they find most relevant, while offering to discuss their selection before the training funds deadline.
 Allocate the available training funds to the program management certification course for the employee since it has broader applicability, and inform them of the enrollment deadline without a formal development discussion.
 Defer the training decision until the next performance evaluation cycle so that development goals can be formally incorporated into the employee's performance plan before committing section training funds.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙