Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12939824-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist Position with the Martinsburg VA Medical Center. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you have the basic qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402 (d) and 7407(d). 

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification. All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [or Mammography (m) duties performed independently, as applicable]. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent [can operate independently] and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. [In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologist who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist. 

Do you meet the Certification requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education. Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the 2 equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Do you meet the education requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-9 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI) Advanced ARRT certification: Magnetic  Resonance Imaging (MR). This specialty modality required additional knowledge of superconducting magnets, the physics of superconducting magnets, and how they relate to the human anatomy in medical imaging. The technologist must be educated in the safety factors governing a magnetic environment that patients, visitors, and equipment enter. the practitioner must have specialized knowledge of cross sectional anatomy and how it relates to the soft tissues and vessels of the human body. The technologist must also have specialized knowledge int he radio-frequency surface coils required for each specific anatomical area to be imaged. [This assignment may also perform basic magnetic resonance safety program duties. Technologist must be knowledgeable in contrast media, power injectors, and PACS. DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require advanced ARRT (MR) certification]

Do you posses this certification?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS- 9 Experience: At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-08), directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.  Examples to include:
Independently provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services with only occasional oversight or direction for highly complex issues.

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above and is documented on your resume?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS 9 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk: 
*Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.
Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers
*Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.
Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography. 
Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions.
Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients. 
Do you meet the requirements at the GS- 9?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙