Position Title
Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-12925479-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes developing and/or evaluating communication strategies to determine best methods to secure public acceptance of organizational projects or programs; planning and preparing internal personnel for communication or media interaction at various levels; preparing or overseeing release of information, such as news releases, features stories, speeches, written materials, and web communication related to current events and organizational missions; and supervision, leadership or experience directing teams.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.
Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
Your district commander has announced a new safety initiative following a recent workplace incident. Employee morale is low, and there are concerns about potential policy changes and job security. You need to develop an internal communication strategy that will keep employees informed about the initiative's progress, address their concerns, and maintain engagement with the safety program. What approach would be most effective?

 Establish a weekly email newsletter highlighting safety improvements and policy updates, create a dedicated webpage for initiative resources, and organize quarterly meetings for employees to discuss concerns with management.
 Develop a monthly internal newsletter featuring safety tips and program updates, post regular announcements on the district intranet, and encourage supervisors to discuss the initiative during team meetings.
 Create a multi-channel communication plan including regular email updates, an interactive intranet portal for questions and feedback, monthly safety newsletters featuring employee input, and scheduled town halls for direct dialogue with leadership.
 Focus on creating comprehensive written materials about the safety initiative and distribute them through existing channels, since employees prefer to review detailed information at their own pace rather than attend meetings.
 Send periodic email announcements about major safety policy changes, update the internal website with new procedures and requirements, and rely on supervisors to communicate details to their teams.


2.
Your district is planning a major infrastructure project that will require coordination with multiple federal agencies, state environmental regulators, local governments, and various stakeholder groups including business associations and environmental organizations. Some stakeholders have conflicting interests, and past projects in the region have faced significant delays due to poor coordination. How should you ensure effective stakeholder engagement throughout the project lifecycle?

 Identify key decision-makers in each stakeholder group and maintain direct communication channels, coordinate with agency liaisons to ensure regulatory compliance, and schedule public information sessions at major project milestones.
 Develop a comprehensive stakeholder mapping and engagement strategy with tailored communication approaches for each group, establish regular coordination meetings with key agencies, create feedback mechanisms to address concerns early, and maintain ongoing relationship-building activities.
 Focus engagement efforts on the most influential stakeholders and regulatory agencies, provide standard project updates through official channels, and respond to specific requests for information or meetings as they arise.
 Create a structured communication schedule with regular updates to all stakeholders, establish formal coordination protocols with regulatory agencies, and organize periodic stakeholder meetings to discuss project progress and address emerging issues.
 Concentrate on meeting formal regulatory requirements for public notification and agency coordination, since extensive stakeholder engagement can create unrealistic expectations and potentially delay project implementation.


3.
You've been in your position for six months and inherited a media contact list that appears outdated. Several key reporters have changed and you've noticed that some media outlets are not covering district activities that would typically generate interest. Additionally, you need to expand relationships with specialized trade publications and engineering journals to better reach technical audiences. How should you approach rebuilding and expanding your media network?

 Focus on reestablishing relationships with major local media outlets first, then gradually expand to regional and national contacts, while maintaining existing relationships with trade publications that have covered the district previously.
 Wait for media representatives to contact you about stories, since proactive outreach might be seen as pushy, and focus on responding professionally to media inquiries to gradually build new relationships over time.
 Conduct a systematic audit of current media contacts and research new personnel, schedule introductory meetings with key reporters and editors to understand their coverage interests, attend relevant industry events and press associations, and establish regular touchpoints to maintain relationships.
 Targeted outreach campaign to update contact information through direct outreach to media organizations, introduce yourself to new reporters covering relevant beats, research specialized publications in your field, and begin providing regular story ideas and expert sources to build credibility.
 Review and update the existing contact database, reach out to reporters who have covered district stories in the past, identify new media contacts through online research, and begin sharing district news and information with expanded media list.


4.
Your district's social media presence has been inconsistent, with sporadic posting and limited engagement. Recent posts about a controversial project generated significant negative comments and misinformation that went unaddressed for several days. Meanwhile, other Corps districts have dynamic social media programs that effectively engage the public and counter misinformation quickly. Your commander wants to improve the district's digital communication strategy. What approach should you take?

 Create consistent posting schedules with a mix of project updates and educational content, establish guidelines for responding to comments and misinformation, assign dedicated staff to monitor accounts, and develop approval workflows for sensitive topics.
 Focus on posting factual project information and official announcements, limit engagement with controversial comments to avoid escalating conflicts, and ensure all content is thoroughly reviewed before posting.
 Increase posting frequency with regular project updates and community information, create standard responses for common questions and concerns, and establish daily monitoring procedures to address negative comments promptly.
 Develop a comprehensive social media strategy with content calendars, engagement protocols, and crisis response procedures, establish clear approval processes for different types of content, train staff on social media best practices, and implement monitoring tools for real-time response capabilities.
 Restrict social media use to basic project announcements and official statements, since active engagement on controversial topics can create more problems than it solves and may conflict with official communication policies.


5.
Your district commander receives numerous invitations to speak at community events, professional conferences, and stakeholder meetings throughout the year. Some events offer excellent opportunities for relationship building and public education, while others may have limited value or potential risks. You need to help the commander prioritize engagement opportunities and develop a strategic approach to community involvement. What recommendation framework should you establish?

 Recommend accepting most community engagement opportunities since public visibility is generally beneficial, while declining only those events that present obvious conflicts or scheduling impossibilities.
 Create assessment guidelines that evaluate the strategic importance of each event, potential audience impact, and alignment with district priorities, establish criteria for accepting or declining invitations, and recommend preparation strategies for high-priority engagements.
 Focus on events that offer the greatest visibility and relationship-building opportunities, prioritize invitations from key stakeholder groups, and recommend acceptance based on schedule availability and general strategic value.
 Develop a proactive annual engagement strategy that identifies key events to target, even without an invitation. Develop evaluation criteria that consider strategic value, audience reach, relationship-building potential, and resource requirements. Recommend assigning some events to other senior staff or subject matter experts to maximize district outreach while protecting the commander's time for the highest-impact opportunities.
 Establish evaluation factors including audience significance, potential public relations value, and resource commitments, develop recommendation categories for different types of events, and create standard preparation approaches for accepted engagements.


6.
Your district is beginning a comprehensive study for a major water resources project that will require extensive environmental analysis and regulatory review. The study will take approximately three years and must include meaningful public participation throughout the process. The affected area includes urban and rural communities with different interests, and the project has both strong supporters and vocal opponents. How should you design the public involvement program?

 Design a phased engagement strategy that matches public involvement activities to study milestones. Use a mix of digital and in-person tools to gather broad input, create transparent feedback loops that explicitly show the public how their input helped shape alternatives or study outcomes. Regularly evaluate participation effectiveness and adapt the approach as needed.
 Plan public involvement activities around major study milestones, focus on traditional methods like public meetings and comment periods, and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements for public participation.
 Create a structured program with regular public meetings, comment periods, and information sessions throughout the study process, establish multiple ways for the public to provide input, and develop procedures for incorporating feedback into study decisions.
 Meet minimum regulatory requirements for public notification and comment periods, since extensive public involvement can create unrealistic expectations and may complicate the technical study process.
 Develop a comprehensive public consultation plan that maps out engagement activities for each phase of the three-year study. Ensure a variety of participation methods are available—from formal public meetings to online surveys—and maintain a public-facing dashboard or website to track study progress and share all official documents.


7.
Over the past year, your district has faced several communication challenges including negative media coverage of a project delay, social media criticism about environmental impacts, and declining attendance at public meetings. However, stakeholder surveys show improved satisfaction with district responsiveness, and website traffic has increased significantly. You need to assess the overall effectiveness of your public affairs program and identify areas for improvement. What evaluation approach should you take?

 Focus on areas where negative feedback or opposition has emerged, analyze the causes of communication challenges, and recommend increased attention and resources for problematic topics or stakeholder groups.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis using multiple data sources and evaluation methods, identify patterns and trends in both positive and negative feedback, assess the effectiveness of different communication strategies and channels, and develop specific recommendations for addressing identified weaknesses while building on strengths. Use this analysis to develop a clear "start, stop, continue" plan that reallocates resources from ineffective activities (like poorly attended meetings) to more successful ones.
 Review media coverage, stakeholder feedback, and engagement metrics to identify areas of concern and success, assess current communication approaches against program objectives, and recommend adjustments to address identified issues.
 Analyze available quantitative and qualitative data to identify communication successes and challenges, evaluate the effectiveness of current strategies and tactics, assess stakeholder perceptions and concerns, and develop recommendations for program improvements. Categorize findings into "strengths" and "weaknesses" and develop a list of general recommendations for improving the program in the next year.
 Concentrate on quantifiable metrics like media coverage and website statistics, since subjective feedback can be misleading and may not accurately reflect the true effectiveness of communication efforts.


8.
You supervise a team of five public affairs specialists with varying experience levels and skill sets. One specialist excels at writing but struggles with public speaking, another is great with social media but needs improvement in traditional media relations, and a newer team member shows potential but requires significant guidance. You have multiple high-priority projects requiring different expertise, and team members have expressed interest in developing new skills. How should you approach team leadership and task assignment?

 Assign tasks based on current expertise to ensure quality outcomes, provide training opportunities for skill development, establish mentoring relationships within the team, and conduct regular performance discussions to support improvement.
 Assign tasks strictly based on proven capabilities to ensure consistent quality, since development activities should be secondary to meeting operational requirements and project deadlines.
 Assess individual strengths and development needs, create development plans that stretch capabilities while ensuring project success, establish mentoring relationships between experienced and newer staff, and implement regular feedback and coaching to support both performance and growth.
 Focus on leveraging existing strengths for current projects while identifying specific training needs, provide guidance and support for challenging assignments, and gradually increase responsibilities as skills develop.
 Match assignments to individual strengths while providing opportunities for skill development, establish clear expectations and support systems for challenging assignments, and create regular check-ins to monitor progress and provide guidance.


9.
Your public affairs office is facing multiple competing deadlines: a major press release due tomorrow, a congressional briefing package needed by the end of the week, an urgent social media response required for developing controversy, and a strategic communication plan that's already overdue. Additionally, one team member is out sick, and another is committed to a previously scheduled community event. How should you establish priorities and manage the workload?

 Attempt to complete all tasks simultaneously by having team members work overtime and multitask, since all requests appear to be important and stakeholders expect timely delivery regardless of resource constraints.
 Prioritize tasks based on deadlines and organizational impact, redistribute work among available team members, communicate schedule constraints to stakeholders, and focus on completing the most urgent items first.
 Assess the urgency and impact of each task, reallocate resources based on critical deadlines and organizational priorities, communicate with stakeholders about realistic timelines, delegate appropriately while maintaining quality standards, and establish contingency plans for future similar situations.
 Evaluate the relative importance and deadlines of each task, reassign work based on available staff and expertise, communicate with requesters about schedule adjustments if necessary, and focus resources on the most critical deliverables.
 Handle the most immediate deadline first, then work through remaining tasks in chronological order, reassign work as needed based on staff availability, and communicate any potential delays to appropriate parties.


10.
You're leading a crisis communication response to a serious safety incident at one of your district's facilities. The situation requires immediate coordination with multiple stakeholders including emergency responders, regulatory agencies, media, and concerned community members. Your team includes experienced staff who can work independently and newer employees who need more direction. The situation is evolving rapidly, and decisions must be made quickly while maintaining accuracy and sensitivity. How should you adapt your leadership approach?

 Take charge of overall coordination and key decisions, delegate routine tasks to experienced staff while providing more supervision for newer employees, establish regular briefings to maintain situational awareness, and adjust approaches based on developing circumstances.
 Establish a crisis response team with designated roles for each team member. Clearly communicate the strategic objectives and guiding principles (e.g., 'timeliness, accuracy, empathy'), empowering experienced staff to execute decisions within their roles while you focus on strategic oversight, removing obstacles, and coordinating with senior external leaders.
 Focus on making critical decisions yourself while directing team members to handle specific assigned tasks, provide clear instructions and expectations, and maintain close oversight of all activities to ensure consistency and accuracy.
 Maintain your normal collaborative leadership style since consistency is important during crisis situations, and rely on established procedures and team expertise to guide the response effort.
 Assume direct control of the response effort, establishing yourself as the central decision-maker. Assign specific, task-oriented roles to all team members and require that all external communications and critical decisions be funneled through you for final approval to ensure consistency.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙