Position Title
Laundry Worker (MVO)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-12983881-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Laundry Worker (MVO) position with the Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based your level of experience and/or training that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Laundry Worker (MVO) duties.
 I have the ability to perform the the most difficult and complex tasks at a military hospital facility. I am skilled in the use of linen or laundry operations such collecting, storing, weighing linen or laundry. I also am skilled in inventory and supply chain management such as examining, surveying and distributing of inventory linen, while ensuring contingency or disaster carts remain in preparation. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks at a military hospital facility. I am skilled in the use of linen or laundry operations such collecting, weighing linen or laundry. I also am skilled in examining and distributing of inventory linen, while ensuring contingency or disaster carts remain in preparation. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspections.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks including placing contaminated linen in water-soluble bags, examining linen or laundry, and distributing inventory linen. I work under normal supervision of a work leader who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I do not possess the ability described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙