Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Integrated Resources Program Manager)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHS-26-13035774-IMP-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current National Park Service Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)
To claim non-competitive eligibility as a Current career or career-conditional National Park Service employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same (or higher grade level) with the same (or higher promotion potential) as the position being announced.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same (or higher) rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current National Park Service employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current National Park Service employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 Yes
 No


4.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0170 - History
 B. 0190 - General Anthropology
 C. 0193 - Archeology
 D. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences


Due Weight Performance
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


2.
Are you including a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Merit Promotion Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Integrated Resources Program Manager position with the National Park Service. This position may be filled as Historian GS-170-12, Biologist GS-401-12, Cultural Anthropologist GS-190-12, or Archeologist GS-193-12.


1.
Basic Education Requirement - Historian GS-0170
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic education requirement for the Historian GS-0170 position. Mark only one response. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
The resume or application materials you submit must support the answer you select for this and all other questions. If not, you may be found not qualified or your score may be lowered.
If you use education to qualify, you must document your coursework and/or degree in your resume or other application materials. You must submit a copy of your transcripts or a complete list of college courses showing the institution, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. Failure to provide this information will result in your application being rated not qualified. (Official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty if selected.)
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study at an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s or higher degree in history or a related field that included at least 18 semester hours in history.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes coursework equivalent to a major in history or a related field with at least 18 semester hours in history, plus appropriate experience or additional education. My combination of education and experience demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities comparable to those acquired through a full four-year course of study with a major as described above.
 I do not meet the basic education requirement described above.


2.
Basic Education Requirement - Biologist GS-0401
Select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic education requirement for the Biologist GS-0401 position.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study at an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s or higher degree that included a major in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or a related discipline appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes coursework equivalent to a major (i.e., 24 semester hours) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or a closely related discipline, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework. My combination demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities comparable to those acquired through a full four-year major as described above.
 I do not meet the basic education requirement for Biologist.


3.
Basic Education Requirement - Cultural Anthropologist GS-190
Select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for the Cultural Anthropologist GS-190 position. Mark only one response. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study at an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s or higher degree in an appropriate field of anthropology.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes coursework equivalent to a major (i.e., 24 semester hours) in an appropriate field of anthropology or related coursework, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I have at least four years of appropriate experience in anthropology performing research, museum work, or similar professional-level work.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


4.
Basic Education Requirement - Archeologist GS-193
Select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for the Archeologist GS-193 position. Mark only one response.
 I have completed a full four-year course of study at an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s or higher degree that included all of the following: • Three semester hours in the history of archeology • Three semester hours in the archeology of a major geographic area • Three semester hours in regional archeology, archeological cultures, or sites in a specific geographic region • Three semester hours in the theory and methods of archeology (e.g., typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, analytical techniques) • Archeological field school AND • Six semester hours of related coursework in geography, geology, cultural geography; history, historiography, or historical archeology; environmental studies; scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); and/or surveying AND • Archeological field school participation
 I have completed a related curriculum—a bachelor’s or higher degree in anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline—provided that my coursework included studies sufficiently similar to the requirements in Option A (including archeological field school).
 I have a combination of education and experience, including college-level education or training that provided knowledge equivalent to Option A, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education.
 I do not possess a qualifying degree or combination of education and experience as stated above, but I have at least four years of archeological work experience demonstrating a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. My experience includes fieldwork such as survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials, and is sufficient to allow me—after additional supervised experience—to serve as a crew chief.
 I do not meet any of the requirements stated above.


5.
Specialized Experience Requirement - Integrated Resources Program Manager GS-12

Select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for the GS-12 level.

 

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service. I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service, obtained in either the public or private sector. Specialized experience is defined as demonstrated knowledge of natural and cultural resources, including, as appropriate, but not limited to: history, archeology, historic structures, ethnology, cultural landscapes, natural and cultural museum collections, archives, botany, wildlife biology, ecology, hydrology, and physical sciences. Examples of qualifying experience include: Experience drafting and implementing resource management plans. The candidate must have written, coordinated, and implemented natural or cultural resource management plans or action plans—such as inventory plans, monitoring protocols, or preservation/mitigation plans—and demonstrated the ability to integrate multidisciplinary resource information (e.g., historic, archeological, biological). Experience conducting field-based resource inventories and scientifically credible monitoring. The candidate must have performed hands-on inventory or monitoring tasks, including designing sample plots, collecting field data, recording results using professional standards, and analyzing findings to evaluate resource conditions. Experience preparing compliance documentation under NHPA and/or NEPA. The candidate must have developed compliance documents such as Environmental Assessments (EAs), Categorical Exclusions, Section 106 reviews, or evaluations of Environmental Impact Statements, ensuring that projects adhered to federal cultural and natural resource protection requirements. Experience managing projects, budgets, and agreements. The candidate must have created work plans, schedules, cost estimates, or statements of work; administered funds; or demonstrated the ability to serve as an Agreements Technical Representative (ATR) or Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR). Experience providing technical guidance or training to staff, partners, or stakeholders. The candidate must have trained, advised, or provided professional guidance on resource management procedures—such as instructing staff on data collection standards, monitoring protocols, museum curation procedures, or compliance workflows—and demonstrated the ability to communicate technical information clearly.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described above.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that making an intentional false statement, committing deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process may result in fines or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001), cancellation of my eligibility, denial of appointment, removal from Federal service, or debarment (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I also understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙