Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Community Recreation)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12928877 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Recreation Specialist Supervisor (DDP) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Documented experience working as a supervisor and/or as a leader

 Yes I have documented experience as a supervisor/or as a leader
 No I do not have any documented experience as a supervisor/or as a leader


2.
Documented years of experience working and caring for professional setting.
 5+ years of documented experience
 4 to 5 years of documented experience
 3 to 4 years of documented experience
 2 to 3 years of documented experience
 1 to 2 years of documented experience
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 Less than 6 months or no documented experience


3.
Documented years working as a supervisory and/or as a leader

 5+ years of documented experience
 4 to 5 years of documented experience
 3 to 4 years of documented experience
 2 to 3 years of documented experience
 1 to 2 years of documented experience
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 Less than 6 months or no documented experience


4.
Experience with retail operations (To include some or all of the following: Operating a Point of Sale system, patron tracking, ordering product, monitoring of sales, cash handling, customer service, providing information, inventory, making reservations and equipment issue).

 5+ years of documented experience in a retail operations within the DoD
 5+ years of documented experience in a retail operations within the civilian sector
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in retail operations within the DoD
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in retail operations within the civilian sector
 3 to 4 years of documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector
 2 to 4 years of documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector
 1 to 2 years of documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector


5.
Skills in all database(s), software(s), and platform(s)
 A. Microsoft Outlook
 B. Microsoft Excel
 C. Microsoft Word
 D. Microsoft Access
 E. Microsoft Power Point
 F. Rec Trac
 G. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙