Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment & Placement)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-26-KMR-13014298-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to Human Capital Services Office, Des Moines candidates. Current permanent VBA employees holding the GS-7/GS-9/GS-11/GS-12. Or CTAP-eligible candidates.


1.
Are you a status candidate covered by the indicated hiring paths in the job announcement?

 Yes, I am a current employee of HRC Des Moines and I will provide my documentation.
 Yes, I am CTAP eligible, and I will provide my documentation.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
GS-07:Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-7 or higher grade.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I DO NOT have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher, nor am I eligible.


3.
GS-09: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-9 or higher grade.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I DO NOT have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher, nor am I eligible.


4.
GS-11: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I DO NOT have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher, nor am I eligible.


5.
GS-12: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I DO NOT have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher, nor am I eligible.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


6.
GS-7: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0201-07 Human Resources Specialist position.
GS-07 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-5 level. Specialized Experience is defined as researching, analyzing, and applying policies, regulations, and standard procedures to provide internal and external customer support. Experience must include use of automated recordkeeping systems to research and resolve issues or provide management support.
OR
Education Substitution: One (1) full year of graduate-level education. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position; OR A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher). Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov

 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate-level education. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position; OR A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher). Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. Transcripts are required.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education are not described above, and I will not receive any further consideration.


7.
GS-9: Applicants must have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-7 level. Specialized experience is defined as interpreting and applying a variety of routine Federal or state personnel management rules, regulations, and procedures. Experience must include use of automated personnel recordkeeping systems to research and resolve personnel issues or provide management support.
GS-9 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicants must have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-7 level. Specialized experience is defined as interpreting and applying a variety of routine Federal or State personnel management rules, regulations, and procedures. Experience must include use of automated personnel recordkeeping systems to research and resolve personnel issues or provide management support.
Education Substitution: Possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LLB. or J.D, if related.
OR possess a combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Only graduate level education beyond the first year may be used to qualify at the GS-09 level. To compute your combined percentage, divide your total months of For Official Use Only Confidential Information Safeguard 3 qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify for this grade.
OR
Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate level education. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond 1 year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]

 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree, 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or JD, if related. Coursework completed is related to the competencies of this position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education are not described above, and I will not receive any further consideration.


8.
GS-11: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0201-11 Human Resources Specialist position.
GS-11 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: One (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as applying Title 5 Federal civilian personnel principles, procedures, and regulatory guidance to provide advanced technical guidance on recruitment, staffing, pay setting, and associated personnel actions. Experience includes the use of automated systems for processing personnel actions, gathering and analyzing data, helping customers regarding human resources issues, and drafting technical responses to inquiries, problems, and complaints.
OR
Education Substitution: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Coursework must be related to the competencies of this position.
OR
Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate education. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]

 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Coursework completed is related to the competencies of this position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education are not described above, and I will not receive any further consideration.


9.
GS-12: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0201-12 Human Resources Specialist position.
GS-12 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: One (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-11 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Providing comprehensive and authoritative guidance on a variety of complex and controversial Title 5 Federal civilian personnel situations and identifying flexible alternatives for problem resolution in a variety of HR areas. Experience must include the application of Title 5 Federal civilian personnel principles, procedures, and regulatory guidance to provide advanced technical guidance on recruitment, staffing, pay setting, and associated personnel actions.

 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service.
 I do not have the specialized experience described in "A" and therefore I am not qualified for this position at the GS-12 grade level.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in you being barred from federal employment.


10.
Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙