Position Title
Pretrial Services Officer
Agency
Pretrial Services Agency
Announcement Number
26-34(DE) Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic professional requirements and the specialized experience requirements. Select the appropriate response concerning your education/and/or specialized experience.



1.
I have a four-year degree in behavioral or social science or other related disciplines appropriate to the position; OR a combination of education and experience that provides you with the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field; OR four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates that I have knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 YES
 NO


2.
To qualify for GL-7 grade level: I have one (1) year of specialized experience related to the duties of the position that equipped you with the skills to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as working with individuals in a criminal justice environment obtaining basic information and using basic computer applications OR

Substitution of Education for Experience at the GL-07 grade level: one (1) full year of graduate level education, master's, or equivalent graduate degree; OR Superior Academic Achievement (SAA). SAA is based on (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. 1. 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 2. 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3. Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 YES
 NO


3.
To qualify at the GL-9 level: I have one (1) year of specialized experience related to the duties of the position that equipped you with the skills to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as working with individuals in a criminal justice environment explaining procedures and obtaining information; interviewing, monitoring, and evaluating clients; assessing clients; making recommendations in court; routine use of computer applications and/or law enforcement or comparable database systems. OR

Substitution of Education for Experience for GL-9: I have two (2) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 YES
 NO


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙