Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12970697 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Program Analyst position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Program Analyst at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1. Managing financial matters relating to overall program planning, funding management, and reporting requirements; 2. interpreting budget guidance while maintaining the forecast of expenditures and obligations for projects to ensure the adequacy of project funding; and 3. measuring program effectiveness, productivity, and efficiency to ensure attainment of goals and objectives.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. these range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. -There are no right or wrong answers. Your responses should reflect sound judgement and professional decision-making. This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
As Section Chief Program Analyst, you've received quarterly performance data showing that three major construction projects are experiencing cost overruns. The data indicates varying degrees of inefficiency across different organizations. Your supervisor expects a comprehensive analysis and recommendations within two days. What is your best approach?
 Analyze the cost and schedule variances for each project, document the findings in a standard report format, and recommend general process improvements based on the identified performance gaps.
 Conduct a systematic analysis comparing actual versus planned performance metrics across all projects, identify root causes of inefficiencies, benchmark against similar programs, and develop targeted recommendations with implementation timelines and resource requirements.
 Focus primarily on the projects with the largest cost overruns, gather basic information about the delays, and suggest immediate cost-cutting measures to bring the program back within budget parameters.
 Delegate the analysis to subordinate analysts while you prepare a brief summary report highlighting that delays are common in overseas construction and recommend accepting the current performance levels as acceptable given the challenging environment.
 Review the performance data to identify common patterns across the delayed projects, consult with project managers to understand specific challenges, and prepare recommendations focusing on the most critical issues affecting program objectives.


2.
During monthly financial review, you discover a $1.2M discrepancy between obligated funds and actual expenditures across multiple projects. Initial investigation suggests potential issues with currency conversion timing, contractor billing practices, and CEFMS data entry errors. How do you address this complex financial anomaly?
 Immediately freeze all payments to affected contractors until the discrepancy is resolved, require manual verification of all future transactions, and report the issue to higher headquarters as a potential fraud investigation.
 Investigate the discrepancy by examining financial records and contractor documentation, coordinate with finance personnel to resolve identified issues, and recommend process improvements to prevent similar problems in the future.
 Initiate systematic investigation to isolate root causes by examining protocols, contractor billing documentation, and CEFMS transaction records, coordinate with finance and contracting offices to resolve discrepancies, and establish enhanced controls to prevent recurrence.
 Conduct detailed analysis of the financial discrepancy by reviewing transaction records and billing practices, work with relevant offices to identify and correct errors, and implement improved monitoring procedures to catch similar issues earlier.
 Focus on the largest discrepancies first to resolve the most significant financial impacts, work with contractors to clarify billing issues, and request system updates to improve CEFMS accuracy for future transactions.


3.
Recent audit findings indicate that your program's procurement procedures for international projects may not fully comply with updated Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) requirements. The audit identified potential gaps in documentation and approval processes across multiple projects. Your division chief has asked for recommendations to ensure full regulatory compliance. What is your approach?
 Review the specific audit findings and updated regulations, identify the most critical compliance gaps, and develop revised procedures that address the identified issues while considering the unique challenges of operations.
 Focus on the most serious audit findings, develop quick fixes for the identified problems, and recommend that staff receive additional training on procurement regulations to prevent future compliance issues.
 Conduct a comprehensive review of current procedures against updated FAR requirements, analyze the audit findings to identify systemic issues, collaborate with legal and procurement specialists to develop compliant procedures, and create an implementation plan with training and monitoring components.
 Review the audit findings and recommend that the program continue with existing procedures while requesting clarification from higher headquarters about whether projects should be exempt from certain FAR requirements due to operational complexities.
 Analyze the audit report to understand the compliance deficiencies, research the applicable FAR requirements, and draft procedural modifications that would address the identified gaps in documentation and approval processes.


4.
You're managing financial authorities for multiple projects across different fiscal years, and you've identified that $2.3 million in funding authority expires in 45 days. Several projects are behind schedule, and you need to determine which funds can be obligated in time and which require carryover documentation. The finance office needs your recommendations within one week. How do you proceed?

 Focus on the largest funding amounts first, attempt to obligate as much as possible through existing contracts, and submit carryover requests for any remaining funds without detailed analysis of individual project needs.
 Analyze each project's current status and obligation potential, work with project teams to accelerate commitment processes where feasible, and prepare the necessary carryover paperwork for remaining funds while documenting lessons learned.
 Submit carryover documentation for all $2.3 million since processing obligations in 45 days would be too rushed and could lead to improper commitments, and recommend that future funding be managed with longer lead times.
 Review the funding status of all affected projects, identify which obligations can realistically be processed before expiration, and prepare carryover requests for the remaining funds with appropriate justifications.
 Immediately review all active projects to assess obligation readiness, coordinate with project managers to expedite viable commitments, prepare carryover documentation for funds that cannot be obligated, and establish a tracking system to monitor future expiration dates and prevent similar situations.


5.
Your quarterly financial analysis reveals that construction projects are consistently experiencing higher indirect costs than other projects, with a 12% variance from budget projections. You need to identify the root causes and recommend improvements for the next fiscal year planning cycle. How do you proceed?
 Review the cost variance reports to understand where the differences occur, examine the unique aspects of projects that might contribute to higher costs, and develop general recommendations for better cost estimation and management.
 Recommend increasing the indirect cost budget for all projects by 12% to align with actual performance and eliminate future variances.
 Focus on the projects with the highest cost variances, analyze their specific circumstances, and make recommendations based primarily on those cases while noting the overall trend in projects.
 Conduct a detailed analysis comparing indirect cost structures between projects, examine factors such as logistics, oversight requirements, and regulatory compliance costs, benchmark against industry standards, and develop specific recommendations for cost optimization and more accurate future projections.
 Analyze the indirect cost data to identify specific categories driving the variance, compare project requirements with others, research best practices for international construction cost management, and prepare recommendations for improved budgeting and cost control.


6.
Performance evaluations indicate that junior program analysts across your section struggle with financial forecasting accuracy, with variances averaging 20% from actual expenditures. This impacts budget planning and resource allocation decisions. Your supervisor has asked you to address this performance gap. What is your recommended approach?
 Assess individual analyst capabilities through skills evaluation, identify specific forecasting methodology gaps, develop a comprehensive training program combining formal instruction with mentoring, establish performance metrics to track improvement, and create ongoing professional development opportunities.
 Recommend that all junior analysts attend general financial management training, assign experienced analysts as mentors, and establish monthly reviews to monitor forecasting performance improvements.
 Review the performance data to understand the scope of the forecasting problems, research available training options, and recommend appropriate courses or workshops to improve analyst capabilities.
 Evaluate the current forecasting methods used by analysts, identify common error patterns, and develop targeted training that addresses the specific technical skills needed to improve forecasting accuracy.
 Suggest that forecasting responsibilities be reassigned to senior analysts until junior staff gain more experience, and recommend that new hires have stronger financial backgrounds to prevent similar performance gaps.


7.
During your monthly financial review, you discover that three projects show significant misalignment between their expenditure forecasts and available funding. Project A is forecasting $800K over budget, Project B has $1.2M in unplanned obligations, and Project C shows funding gaps in the final quarter. Each project manager insists their forecasts are accurate. How do you address this situation?
 Accept the project managers' forecasts as accurate and recommend requesting additional funding from higher headquarters to cover the identified gaps, since experienced project managers are best positioned to estimate their resource needs.
 Review the financial data for each project to identify specific alignment issues, work with project managers to understand forecast methodologies, and develop recommendations for bringing expenditures and funding into proper alignment.
 Focus on the project with the largest funding gap first, request revised forecasts from all project managers, and recommend that future forecasting include larger contingency amounts to prevent similar alignment issues.
 Analyze the expenditure forecasts against available funding for each project, document the misalignments, and work with the finance office to determine options for addressing the funding discrepancies.
 Conduct detailed analysis of each project's financial position, validate forecast assumptions against actual performance data, meet with project managers to reconcile discrepancies, develop corrective action plans with timeline and funding solutions, and establish enhanced monitoring procedures to prevent future misalignments.


8.
You must prepare a budget justification presentation for leadership defending a 12% increase in next year's program funding. The increase is needed for inflation adjustments, expanded security requirements, and new environmental compliance costs. Leadership is known to challenge budget requests rigorously and expects detailed supporting analysis. How do you prepare?
 Analyze each cost component driving the increase, gather supporting data from reliable sources, prepare clear justifications for each budget category, and develop presentation materials that effectively communicate the necessity of the requested funding.
 Develop comprehensive cost analysis with detailed breakdowns by category, research industry benchmarks and inflation indices, prepare risk assessments and alternative scenarios, create compelling visual presentations with supporting documentation, and anticipate potential questions with data-driven responses.
 Focus the presentation on the program's past successes and recommend that leadership approve the increase based on the program's track record, since detailed cost analysis may be too complex for the presentation timeframe.
 Prepare a basic presentation showing the requested increase, provide general explanations for the additional costs, and rely primarily on historical spending patterns to justify the budget request.
 Research the specific factors contributing to the budget increase, compile supporting documentation, and prepare a presentation that outlines the justification for additional funding with appropriate cost breakdowns.


9.
Mid-year analysis reveals that your program faces a potential $3.5M funding shortfall due to budget fluctuations and increased material costs. You have six months remaining in the fiscal year and multiple active projects that could be affected. Leadership expects you to present options for addressing this shortfall while maintaining program effectiveness. What is your approach?
 Focus on identifying the projects with the lowest priority, recommend deferring non-critical activities to the next fiscal year, and suggest requesting supplemental funding to cover any remaining shortfall.
 Conduct comprehensive analysis of all project funding requirements and expenditure patterns, identify opportunities for cost savings and efficiency improvements, evaluate options for project prioritization and scope adjustments, develop multiple scenarios with risk assessments, and prepare recommendations that balance program objectives with fiscal constraints.
 Review all active projects to identify funding flexibility, assess which projects could be delayed or reduced in scope, and prepare options for leadership consideration that address the identified shortfall.
 Recommend that all projects continue as planned and request emergency funding from higher headquarters to cover the shortfall, since reducing project scope could compromise program effectiveness and stakeholder relationships.
 Analyze current project funding status and remaining requirements, identify potential cost reduction opportunities across the program, and develop prioritized recommendations for addressing the shortfall while minimizing impact on critical objectives.


10.
Your analysis indicates that your program's projected workload for the next three years will exceed current staffing capacity by approximately 30%, particularly in specialized engineering and project management roles. Budget constraints limit hiring, but program commitments are firm. Leadership needs your long-range resource forecast and recommendations for managing this capacity gap. How do you proceed?

 Review the workload projections and current resource availability, identify where capacity gaps will be most critical, and prepare recommendations for addressing staffing shortfalls through available options within budget constraints.
 Recommend maintaining current staffing levels and advising leadership that the projected workload increase should be managed by extending project timelines, since hiring restrictions make capacity expansion unfeasible.
 Analyze projected workload requirements against current staffing levels, identify critical skill gaps and timing issues, and develop recommendations for addressing capacity shortfalls through a combination of strategic hiring, contractor support, and process improvements.
 Develop detailed workforce analysis projecting staffing needs by skill set and timeframe, evaluate alternative resource strategies including contractor support and cross-training, assess workload distribution options and efficiency improvements, create multiple scenarios with cost-benefit analysis, and recommend integrated solutions that balance capacity with budget constraints.
 Document the projected capacity gap, recommend prioritizing the most critical projects, and suggest that some program commitments may need to be renegotiated to match available resources.


11.
You're the program analyst on a multi-national infrastructure project involving three different host governments, each with varying approval processes, technical standards, and political priorities. Recent changes in one country's government have created new requirements that conflict with the other partners' expectations. The project timeline is at risk, and all parties are looking to your organization for leadership in resolving these coordination challenges. How do you proceed?
 Focus on maintaining relationships with the existing parties while working to educate the new government about the established project parameters and encouraging them to adapt their requirements to match existing agreements.
 Coordinate meetings with all involved governments to discuss the conflicting requirements, work to understand each party's priorities, and develop recommendations for moving forward that address the most critical concerns.
 Work with the PM to immediately engage with all government representatives to understand their specific requirements and constraints, facilitate multilateral discussions to identify common ground and acceptable compromises, develop alternative approaches that address each party's core concerns, and establish ongoing coordination mechanisms to prevent future conflicts.
 Meet with each government separately to understand their positions and requirements, identify areas of potential compromise, and work to develop solutions that accommodate the new requirements while maintaining project viability.
 Recommend proceeding with the original project plan since agreements were already in place, and suggest that the new requirements be addressed in future projects to avoid disrupting current commitments.


12.
A major construction contract requires administrative modifications due to regulatory changes. The modifications will affect payment schedules, require budget reallocations between projects, and potentially create cash flow issues for the contractor. You need to manage these financial risks while maintaining project momentum and contractor relationships. What is your approach?
 Analyze the financial implications of the required modifications, work with contracting officers to structure changes that minimize cash flow disruption, coordinate budget reallocations to support the modifications, and maintain regular communication with the contractor about financial arrangements and timelines.
 Approve advance payments to the contractor to prevent cash flow problems and implement the contract modifications without detailed financial analysis since regulatory compliance is the priority.
 Focus on implementing the regulatory changes as quickly as possible to minimize delays, work with finance to reallocate budgets as needed, and inform the contractor that some payment delays may be unavoidable during the modification process.
 Conduct a comprehensive financial risk assessment including cash flow modeling, coordinate with contracting and finance offices to develop modification strategies that minimize financial disruption, establish interim payment mechanisms if needed, communicate proactively with the contractor about timeline and payment implications, and create contingency plans for various funding scenarios while ensuring compliance with all regulatory requirements.
 Review the modification requirements and their financial impact, coordinate with finance personnel to address budget reallocation needs, work with contracting staff to implement necessary changes, and keep the contractor informed about the modification process and potential payment impacts.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙