Position Title
SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION RESPONSE VICTIM ADVOCATE (SAPR VA) (Title 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
SD-12882588-AF-26-019 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Respond to all the questions below.  The choice you make should be reflected within your resume or application, and will be verified.  If your application does NOT reflect the choice you make, your choice could be changed.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your basic experience as relevant to the position of Sexual Assault Prevention Response Victim Advocate , GS-0101-11. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)
 Possess a Degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.
 Combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.
 Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not meet the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you meet the following Specialized Experience requirement(s)?

1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources. Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures. Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.



3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you currently possess a SECRET or are you able to receive a SECRET security clearance within one year of appointment?
 Yes, I possess a minimum of a Secret security clearance or higher.
 No, I do not possess a Secret security clearance, however, am confident that if selected for this position, I can obtain a secret security clearance within one year of appointment.
 No, I do not possess, nor am I able to obtain, the required security clearance.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Are you willing to occasionally work Irregular and/or overtime (compensatory) hours to support operational requirements or contingencies or work hours outside of the normal duty day, if required?

 Yes
 No


10.
In detail, explain your experience performing essential victim service, advocacy, and support duties; provide a non-clinical response that is trauma-informed, gender-responsive, culturally responsive, and recovery-oriented, and without prejudice to adult victims of sexual assault.




11.
In detail, explain your experience applying  basic strategies for skilled communication, including developing rapport and actively listening, to provide initial victim advocacy services and crisis intervention support for adult victims of sexual assault and comply with mandated timeframes for responding to requests and completing required documents within those timeframes.


12.
In detail, explain your experience conducting mandated initial risk screening; non-clinical safety assessment and planning; and coordinate medical, legal, and civilian and military law enforcement resources to address immediate risk, safety, and supportive service needs in accordance with applicable policy, prioritizing confidentiality and informed consent.



13.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙