Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Biologist/GenEngr/PhysSci/OpsResAnalyst/DataSci)
Agency
U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command
Announcement Number
SDST-26-13034157-DCIPS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) Employee

Do you meet the following?
current Department of the Army DCIPS employee; and
occupy a permanent position without time limitation.
Supporting documentation:  You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action that reflects "1" or "2" in block 24 (Tenure), "2" in block 34 (Position Occupied), and, if applicable, your highest grade held on a permanent basis along with your application/resume package.

To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

 Yes
 No


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 0801 - General Engineering
 C. 1301 - General Physical Science
 D. 1515 - Operations Research
 E. 1560 - Data Science Series


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This is a Title 10 Excepted Service position covered by the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS). Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a DCIPS position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a two year trial period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V2005. While serving a trial period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year trial period?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Biologist, General Engineer, Physical Scientist, Operations research Analyst and or Data Scientist  at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GG/GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes demonstrating the skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of an Interdisciplinary Branch Chief. This includes experience evaluating scientific and technical intelligence programs, applying scientific or engineering methodologies, managing analytical projects, or representing technical positions on intelligence issues.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Biologist at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a General Engineer at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Physical Scientist at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Research Analyst at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in operations research; or a degree with at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Data Scientist at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


7.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙