Position Title
Title 10 Faculty Member (Distance Education)
Agency
U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
Announcement Number
SDSB-25-12838826-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 2, 2025 to Tuesday, December 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
Term employment is subject to a two year trial period. Employees serving a trial period can be removed with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year trial period?
 Yes
 No


4.
The work of this position involves physical effort typical of teaching positions, with substantial platform instruction. The work is normally performed in classrooms and offices at Fort Leavenworth or extended campus sites. Are you able and willing to meet the physical demands of this position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Title 10 Faculty Member position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
PLEASE READ THE ENTIRE STATEMENT -  Applicants applying for this job vacancy posting will only be considered for a vacant position in the Department of Distance Education (DDE), Command and General Staff School. 



2.
BASIC EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENT: This position REQUIRES the incumbent to possess a master's degree from a regionally accredited college or university. Please select the one statement that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Title 10 Faculty Member at the AD-1701-00 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. (NOTE: You must attach copies of your official transcripts).
 I have a masters degree from a regionally accredited college or university.
 I have a masters degree and I am working toward my Ph.D., or Doctorate or ABD from a regionally accredited college or university.
 I have a Ph.D., Doctorate, or higher degree or an ABD from a regionally accredited college or university.
 I have not obtained any of the degrees listed above.


3.
DOCTORATE LEVEL EDUCATION OR TESTED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: This two-year Title 10 position requires the incumbent to possess/earn a Ph.D., or equivalent professional doctorate degree OR tested experience.  The Ph.D. requirement is satisfied by possessing or earning a Ph.D. from a regionally accredited college or university in a field appropriate to the position within the first six (6) years from EOD. Faculty hires that commit to completing a terminal degree will be assessed every two years and may be reappointed for consecutive two-year terms, based upon evidence of satisfactory progress toward completion in six years. Failure to obtain a Ph.D., within the required six (6) year timeframe will be cause for your removal from the position.

Tested experience specific to the teaching position may be used in lieu of a PhD/terminal degree with the approval of the Deputy Commandant. Tested experience includes a minimum of 20 years military service -and- battalion/brigade level command or Joint force/SMU equivalent, -or- ACofS Gl, G2, G6 or G8 for an operational level unit, -or- Fully Joint Qualified (JQO3), or successful service in at least two Joint Duty Assignments (total of 4 years), -or- two of the following assignments as an 05: Professor of Military Science, Division/Corps staff, Deputy Brigade Commander, Army Staff, MITT Team Commander or Team Chief, or Observer/Controller/Trainer at CTC or MCTP. Other qualifications, such as SAMS AMSP with follow-on assignment experience or teaching experience at the graduate level, will be considered in the selection process. Tested experience combined with an exemplary teaching and academic record may lead to the award of Professor of Practice.
 Yes, I have OR I am willing and able to obtain a PhD in a field appropriate for the position within 6 (six) years from my EOD or I believe I meet the tested experience requirements for this position.
 No, I do not possess a doctorate degree appropriate for this position or I am not willing to obtain a doctorate within the required 6 (six) years in a field appropriate for this position.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes your qualifying level of Professional Military Education. (NOTE: You must attach copies of your transcripts, certificate of completion or other documentation for the above course. If you fail to attach the required documentation before the closing date of this announcement, your application will be incomplete, and you will be removed from consideration for his position).
 I am an Intermediate Level Education (ILE) graduate and achieved Military Education Level 4 and Joint Professional Military Education Level 1 (Command and General Staff Officers Course or another service Intermediate Level Education course). (NOTE: You must attach copies of your transcripts, certificate of completion, DD214 Member Copy 4 showing the course under the education portion, or other documentation for the above course. If you fail to attach the required documentation before the closing date of this announcement, your application will be incomplete, and you will be removed from consideration for his position).
 I am NOT an Intermediate Level Education (Command and General Staff Officers Course or other service ILE course) Graduate; achieved Military Education Level 4; Joint Professional Military Education 1 (without waiver).


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Title 10 Faculty Member at the AD-1701-00 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. I have one year of specialized experience in adult education lectures, seminars, developing and revising course material, preparing and reviewing course syllabi, lesson plans for curriculum related to professional military education and experience in unified land operations as a plans and /or operations field grade officer. Experience would be gained in a service component, functional command or geographical combatant command level within the United States Military or an equivalent multinational headquarters abroad.

 Yes, I have one year of the specialized experience illustrated above.
 No, I do not have any of the experience illustrated above.


6.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙