Position Title
Agency
Announcement Number
Opens in new window
Open Period
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you have a bachelor's degree?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current employee of the Supreme Court of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
All applicants are required to submit a cover letter and resume. Please note that generic or re-used cover letters will not be accepted; resumes may be in any format.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Is a resume and cover letter included as part of your application package?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a college degree and at least two years of work experience inside of a human resources office?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have knowledge of, and experience in staffing, recruitment, and classification creation?
 Yes
 No


Narrative responses must directly address the subject of the question asked. Comments such as "see resume" will not be accepted.


4.
Please describe your experience managing end-to-end recruitment processes, including vacancy creation, announcements posting, and onboarding processing.


5.
Please describe your experience with position classifications, including interpretation and application of laws, principals, guidelines, and procedures.


6.
Please describe the process you use to perform position classifications.


7.
Please describe your experience with position description creation and management.


8.
Please describe a challenging request pertaining to a staffing issue that you were tasked to complete and how you resolved the matter.


9.
Please select the answer that best describes your knowledge of the intelligence cycle.
 I have a basic understanding of federal position classification
 I have a proficient understanding of federal position classification
 I have expert understanding of federal position classification


10.
Please select the answer that best describes your written classification reports.
 I usually have my classification analyses edited to make them grammatically correct.
 My analyses and reports are grammatically correct, but my supervisor usually makes other edits before the final version.
 My analyses and reports rarely need significant edits
 I have final editorial authority before publication of formal reports.


11.
What is the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position?
 SCP 11
 SCP 12
 SCP 13


You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility to advance in the application process will be based on experience listed on your resume. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙