Position Title
Interdisciplinary Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-PH-26-13040918-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Operations Research Analyst position with Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
The purpose of this question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.
 I have a Bachelor’s Degree or higher in Operations Research.
 A Bachelor’s Degree or higher with at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours were in calculus.
 My education is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Formulating or developing mathematical models and techniques for quantitative evaluation and assessment of program execution. Conducting multi-disciplined studies to permit operational comparisons of alternatives in terms of effectiveness, feasibility, and cost. Developing state of the art and emerging technologies related to OR/SA/RA disciplines, methods, theories, and techniques. Formulating, defining, and interpreting data presentation requirements, planning approaches, and policy.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙