Position Title
Digital and Social Media Director (Spanish)
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
EX-13015392-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a minimum of one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the GS-13 or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and includes all of the following:
Leading and managing the activities of a professional journalistic and/or broadcasting staff, supporting print, digital, and social media, including experience as a supervisor, team leader, project leader, or equivalent.
Major mass media journalism, broadcasting, and/or reporting experience that demonstrates a knowledge of Cuba its history, economics, culture, socio-political development, and the full range of journalistic skills to select materials, tone, and style that will be most appealing to this audience.
Experience that demonstrates the ability to use social media as a tool in reporting the news, expanding audience engagement, and promoting the organization and its programming content.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have fluency in both English and Spanish languages that enables you to speak, read, write, report, and translate in both languages and that includes knowledge of Cuban idioms and colloquialisms?


 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following describes the highest level of your journalism and/or broadcasting experience as it related to reporting about Cuba?
 I have extensive experience reporting about the entire Latin American region, including Cuba and the Caribbean.
 I am an expert on Cuban history, politics, economics, and current events and report extensively on news with a focus on Cuba.
 I regularly prepare reports and/or broadcasts that include covering events in Cuba, the Caribbean, and the Latin American Region.
 I regularly report on U.S. and world news and have prepared reports on Cuba, the Caribbean, and Latin America.
 I do not have any specific broadcasting or journalistic experience covering Cuba.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Please indicate your general level of knowledge, skill, and experience as a reporter, editor, journalist, and/or broadcaster.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


5.
Which of the following have you performed (check all that apply)?
 A. I supervised teams of journalists and/or broadcasters to prepare news reports.
 B. I performed performance evaluations for journalists, broadcasters, and/or reporters.
 C. I edited news reports and/or broadcasts prepared by other journalists, reporters, and/or broadcasters.
 D. I interviewed applicants for vacant positions and made or recommended selection.
 E. I identified training needs for subordinates and provided or arranged for needed training.
 F. I approved leave for subordinates and maintained or oversaw timekeeping recording.
 G. I initiated informal conduct or disciplinary actions, such as oral or written reprimands, warnings, and/or admonishments.
 H. I was responsible for diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity on a team or in an organization.
 I. I was responsible for streamlining work processes; preparing standard operating procedures; and performing related tasks to improve efficiency and effectiveness of a team and/or organization.
 J. I did not perform any of the above.


6.
Please indicate the highest level of you knowledge and experience as related to writing and reporting news and current events.
 I am an expert at preparing text-based news content for print and internet distribution.
 I have extensive experience preparing news content that incorporates pictures, graphics, links, and similar enhancements.
 I regularly prepare news for publication and internet distribution.
 I write a variety documents, reports, and other material, but do not have any experience in writing journalistic content.


7.
Please assess your ability to innovate and use innovative tools on Social Media platforms to further audience engagement and organization goals and objectives.
 I have no experience innovating and using innovative tools on social media platforms, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience innovating and using innovative tools on social media platforms. I have had exposure to innovative tools, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience innovating and using innovative tools on social media platforms across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have experience innovating and using innovative tools on social media platforms independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in using innovative tools. I seek guidance in this area only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert innovating and using innovative tools on social media platforms. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors in the use of innovative tools in unusually complex situations.


8.
Which of the following platforms have you frequently used as a content distribution tool, including the ability to function as an organizational expert?
 A. FaceBook
 B. Twitter
 C. You-Tube
 D. Instagram
 E. Snap Chat
 F. I have not extensively used any of these platforms.


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


9.
The incumbent of this position will work alongside the Open Technology Fund and Information Technology to seek the digital solutions of the future. Please indicate the level of your experience related to the use of open technology, social media, circumvention tools such as virtual private networks, and information technology to provide innovative digital solutions in the field of journalism and using the internet to disseminate information, especially to closed societies.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


10.
Indicate the level of your knowledge, experience, and ability related to managing human resources.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


11.
Please indicate the statement that best describes the highest level of you knowledge of Cuba and its history, people, culture, economics, politics, and general socio-political environment.
 I have extensive knowledge of Cuba equivalent to that gained by some combination of regularly reporting on Cuba, being educated in Cuban oriented schools at the primary and secondary level, and/or taking graduate level courses with a Cuban oriented major.
 I have strong knowledge of Cuba equivalent to that gained by some combination of some reporting on Cuba, along with reporting on the Caribbean or Latin American region; being educated in Cuban oriented schools at the primary and secondary level, taking undergraduate courses specific to Cuba, and/or taking graduate level courses that include Cuba course-work under a Caribbean or Latin American oriented major.
 I have a general understanding of Cuba based on some combination of occasionally reporting on Cuba along with relevant undergraduate and/or graduate coursework that included some coverage of Cuba.
 I do not have any significant knowledge of Cuba, its people, culture, history, economics, or politics.


12.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


13.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


14.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


15.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


16.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙