Position Title
Auditor (Information Systems) - Technology Operations Directorate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-26-139B-13006102-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


2.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


3.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


4.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Eligibility Requirement - U.S. Public Only (Internal Employees Not Eligible)
 
This announcement is only open to the U.S. Public and nationals
All others are ineligible for this announcement and will not be considered

Important Note - Internal Employees: USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employees are not eligible and will not be considered.


Do you meet the eligibility requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Qualification for Auditor (0511) Eligibility - Education

The Auditor Information Systems (0511) position has specific educational requirements. To qualify, applicants must possess a degree in auditing or a technical related field (see below). Alternatively, applicants may qualify through a combination of education and experience that provided professional technical auditing knowledge.

List of Accepted Degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to:
Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to:
Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technical Related, including but not limited to:
 Computer Science, Engineering, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance, Networking, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.

Select the option that best describes how you meet the qualification requirement for this position.

Important Note: You must upload transcripts and/or supporting documentation to verify your selection.
 I have a degree in auditing or a related field from the provided list, such as computer science, information technology, cybersecurity, or information assurance from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in technical performance auditing or an equivalent combination of technical auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional technical auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) or Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), or Certified Information Security Manager (CISM); or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation with my application.
 I do not meet either the education or the combination of education and experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional Certification or License (Not Required Unless Applicable)


Do you have a professional certification or license, such as a CISA, CISSP, CISM, CAP, CASP+, or data analytics-related?


Select the option that best matches your current certification status.
 I have a professional certification or license and will submit my certification with my application.
 I do not currently have an active certification or license.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Career Ladder Promotional Opportunity Information & Requirements


The Career Ladder program provides for annual pay increases and promotion through the Journey Band based on specific requirements.

The US Postal Service Office of Inspector General is Excepted Service, uses pay bands, and our Journey Band covers equivalents of GS-07 through GS-13. This specific announcement covers GS-07 equivalent.


How Career Ladder Promotions Work:

If approved, the employee will receive (on their anniversary date) an increase in base salary of:
Six (6) percent OR
The amount needed to bring salary to Step-1 of the next equivalent GS grade, whichever is greater.

Approval is dependent on the managers certification that:
The employee can perform satisfactorily at the next GS equivalent grade, AND
They receive a PES (evaluation) rating of "Met Expectations" or higher.

Once the employee has been promoted to reach the equivalent GS-13 level, they have graduated from the Career Ladder program and future increases are covered by the Performance Evaluation System (PES).


Please acknowledge you have read the above summary of the Career Ladder program.
 Yes
 No


5.
In-Office & Duty Station Requirement


The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected during core business hours.

The following location is available for consideration (relocation not approved or authorized):
Arlington, VA


Are you able to meet the in-office requirement during core business hours?
 Yes
 No


6.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation


This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume - must not exceed two (2) pages
Transcripts from an accredited college or university
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Accuracy
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙