Position Title
Operations Research Analyst
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20251218-81498-MLJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 06, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Operations Research Analyst at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service which includes, knowledge of Scientific principles, computer modeling and simulation, Program analysis, and Military Command Structure.
 I have a degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics
 I have a combination of education and experience, as described above, may be used to qualify for this position.
 None of the Above.


2.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙