Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (PACS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12976342-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - The basic requirements for employment as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist within the VHA are prescribed by the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist-Qualification Standard-GS-0647. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a DRT on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the DRT occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist-Qualification Standard-0647 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


1.
Citizenship Requirement: Which of the following best describes your United States citizenship status? 


 I am a citizen of the United States.
 I am a non-citizen, but I wish to be considered for appointment in the event that it is not possible to recruit qualified U.S. citizens for this position, in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.
 I am not a citizen of the United States and do not wish to be considered under the non-citizen recruitment exception.


2.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in both spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7402(d) and § 7407(d)?
 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English.


3.
Certification Requirement: Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?

PLEASE NOTE: Certification is REQUIRED to be submitted with your application package prior to the closing date of this announcement.
 Yes, I possess a current, active ARRT (R) certification. (Documentation Required)
 No, I do not possess this certification.


4.
Education Requirement: Which of the following best describes your educational background in diagnostic radiologic technology?

PLEASE NOTE: Transcripts are REQUIRED to be submitted with your application package prior to the closing date of this announcement.
 I have successfully completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the JRCERT or from other accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (DOE). (Transcripts Required)
 I do not meet the educational requirements described above.


This section will be used to determine whether you meet the grade level qualifications for the position. Select the response which best describes your specialized experience and/or education for the position.


5.
Grade Determination: Individuals assigned to the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (PACS Technologist), GS-11 position serve as a critical liaison for the Office of Information and Technology (OI&T), Biomedical Engineering staff, and clinical users to ensure the PACS system is configured to optimize imaging and distribution capabilities. This assignment requires performing higher-level duties consisting of significant scope, complexity, and range of variety at least 25% or more of the time.  
To qualify at the GS-11 grade level, your experience must demonstrate fulfillment of this specialized assignment along with all of the following technical Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):  
1: Knowledge of contingency plans during equipment downtimes.  
2: Ability to act as a liaison for Radiology with biomedical engineering and OI&T.  
3: Ability to develop methods and programs to evaluate, monitor, and maintain digital imaging and voice recognition systems.  
4: Ability to lead a team of multidisciplinary members in accomplishing strategic planning and integration of PACS and network elements.  
5: Ability to perform complex system administrator functions such as: oversight of RIS (Hospital Information System/Radiology Information System) links, AE titles, individual and user group creation, and access management.  
 6: Knowledge of VA and other national guidelines pertaining to PACS network, VistA imaging, and database security.  
7: Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures to correctly and efficiently perform and reconcile image information during technical post-processing and evaluation.  

Which of the following statements best describes your professional experience and level of expertise as it relates to the specialized PACS Technologist assignment and KSAs listed above?

 I do not meet the minimum experience required for this grade level. I have not performed these specialized PACS technologist duties, or my experience does not include at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-10 level.
 I have a basic understanding of these specialized PACS duties and KSAs, but I have only performed them under close supervision or as a trainee in a developmental capacity.
 I have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level performing standard PACS system support, troubleshooting application issues, and handling user access controls. However, I lack experience performing the higher-level functions listed above (such as complex system configuration, strategic planning, or leading multidisciplinary teams) at least 25% of the time.
 I possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-10) directly related to this position. I can independently perform all the specialized PACS technologist assignments and satisfy the 7 technical KSAs listed in the description above with only occasional oversight for highly complex issues. These higher-level duties consistently comprise at least 25% or more of my regular working time.
 I possess expert-level experience exceeding the GS-11 requirements. I have a proven track record of independently managing these specialized PACS functions, leading multidisciplinary teams through complex network integrations, and developing system-wide monitoring programs as a primary, daily focus of my work (25% or more of my time).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Certification of Understanding: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙