Position Title
Public Notice - Information Technology Specialist (Direct Hire)
Agency
John Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field
Announcement Number
GRC-26-DE-13027218-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. White Sands Test Facility, Las Cruces, NM
 B. Glenn Research Ctr, Cleveland, OH
 C. Neil Armstrong Test Facility, Sandusky, OH
 D. Johnson Space Ctr, Houston, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12
13
14


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
Please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.

NOTE: If you qualify for this position based on experience, your resume MUST show you have Information Technology (IT) experience demonstrating each of the four competencies as described in the "Qualifications" section of the job announcement: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication, and Problem Solving.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-07 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service that included: Assisting with analysis or testing of IT systems or components to support operational or mission requirements under close supervision; OR Preparing basic technical documentation or status reports in support of IT projects or system activities.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of graduate level education with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of graduate level education with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I have completed a bachelor's degree in an appropriate field and I meet Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) criteria: (1) I was in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or (2) I have a 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA as recorded on my official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (3) I have a 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (4) I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-09 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service that included: Assisting others in analyzing technical or system requirements to help identify issues and support the operation of IT or mission systems; OR Assisting others in developing, testing, or maintaining software, tools, or system components to support functionality, performance, or user needs.
 I have completed all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed all requirements for a master’s or equivalent graduate degree with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master’s or equivalent graduate degree with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master’s or equivalent graduate degree with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Supporting coordinating system monitoring activities, identifying operational issues, and directing timely resolutions that support safe and reliable mission or training operations; OR Supporting analyzing operational data and updating requirements to improve procedures, tools, and system configurations that contribute to mission readiness.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more of fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Coordinating system monitoring activities, identifying operational issues, and directing timely resolutions that support safe and reliable mission or training operations; OR Analyzing operational data and updating requirements to improve procedures, tools, and system configurations that contribute to mission readiness.
 I do not have the experience described above.


5.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Conducting advanced analysis of mission, operational, or system performance data to inform organizational strategies, optimize procedures or tools, and drive decisions affecting mission readiness; OR Providing technical leadership for cross-disciplinary teams, including coordinating complex workflows, delivering high-level recommendations to management, and communicating operational or system needs.
 I do not have the experience described above.


6.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Analyzing and resolving complex technology system or application issues to support operational performance and mission requirements; OR Leading enterprise-level analysis, troubleshooting, and resolution of highly complex technology system, application, infrastructure, and integration issues with significant impact on mission execution, operational continuity, and organizational performance across multiple functional areas.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Certification


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and that all responses to assessment questions and application materials are entirely my own work. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙