Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER (JOINT RESILIENCY DIRECTOR)-Title 5 OBO
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12905999-T5-26-147A Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Title 5 OBO
1.
Are you currently employed as a Title 5 National Guard Employees of the Wisconsin Air/Army National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.



1.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data, and recognizing solutions?


3a.
Please explain your experience.


4.
Do you have experience preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various resources?


4a.
Please explain your experience.


5.
Do you have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures?


5a.
Please explain your experience.


6.
Do you have experience managing the function of the work to be performed which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?


6a.
Please explain your experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙