Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-13081215-27-ES
Open Period
Oct 05, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No
2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
.
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume: Prioritize most relevant and recent experience Use concise, results focused language Align language from the job announcement Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies Remove outdated or unrelated experience Use the USAJOBS resume builder Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at: https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/ SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.
.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2.
In accordance with VA Notice 22-13: Pre-Employment References Policy, pre-employment reference checks are a required part of the selection process. A reference check with your current supervisor (or your most recent supervisor within the last 3 years, if you do not have a current one) must be completed before a tentative job offer can be extended. Please provide information for at least four professional references in the text box below. Two of these references must be supervisors - one should be your current supervisor and one should be a previous supervisor within the last 3 years. If you are unable to provide two supervisory references, please list individuals who have directly observed your work. The following information is required for each professional reference provided: First and last name Relationship to you i.e., current supervisor, previous supervisor, etc. Current phone number Email address Note: Providing this information is considered permission to contact the reference(s) listed and no further action is necessary. Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.
TIG Screen
.
Thank you for your interest in the position of Supervisory Administrative Officer with the Department of Veterans Affairs located at the VA Northeast Ohio Healthcare System in Cleveland, ohio.
1.
Select the statement below that best describes your ability to meet the basic requirements for this position at the GS-12 level. Please refer to the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) with responsibilities close to the work of this position that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of the Administration Officer. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: knowledge and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations; knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect the use of program and related support resources in the area studied; knowledge of the major issues, program goals and objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the organization; knowledge and skill in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to the measurement and improvement of program effectiveness and/or organizational productivity; skill in conducting detailed analyses of complex functions and work processes; and interpersonal skills in presenting staffing recommendations and negotiating solutions to disputed recommendations. Knowledge of policies including leave approval, timekeeping, authorized absence, Union guidelines, and other rules and regulations governing the supervision of the clerical staff.
 I do not possess the required expereince.
