Position Title
Surgical Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12889064-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume and supporting documents. Applicants wishing to receive credit for experience must clearly indicate the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment. Applicants wishing to receive credit for education must submit transcripts that include name of individual, program enrolled, month and date of degree conferred.


1.
Minimum Qualification

Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR):
Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled.

Do you meet the IOR for this position?

 Yes
 No


2.
Minimum Qualification

Experience: Applicants must possess one full year of  specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Qualifying examples of specialized experience include the following: 
Knowledge of highly technical medical instruments, human anatomy, physiology, and aseptic technique to prepare and protect the sterile field during surgery. Knowledge of sterile technique must include sterilizer operations and test to determine the effectiveness of sterilization, packing, storage, and shelf life. Also includes the proper cleaning techniques and the types of detergents to use on various items, as well as the proper handling and rotation of sterile supplies, handling of contaminated items, quality control, and personal hygiene. Must have in-depth knowledge of universal precautions and know how to implement infection control policies and procedure.
OR

Education: 
Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. One full year of graduate education meets the requirements for GS-07.  One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be 18 semester hours. 
OR

Combining Experience and Education:
Equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience are also qualifying. If education is used to meet specialized experience requirements, then such education must include courses directly related to the work of the position. 
 I possess one full year of specialized experience listed above equivalent to the GS-06 grade level that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the positions.
 I possess one full year of graduate level education. ( One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be 18 semester hours. )
 I posses a combination of creditable education and experience to meet this requirement.
 None of my experience and/or education is listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙