Position Title
Program Support Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12848097-HQ-RA-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, December 11, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Merit Promotion

Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities: Current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status.

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (Tenure is located in box 24 and should reflect "1" or "2" AND Position Occupied is located in box 34 and should reflect "1").; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action- If you are a current or former federal employee, you must submit a SF-50 showing the highest grade level held in the position for which you are using to qualify. 
A pay adjustment, QSI or award SF-50 is not acceptable. 

Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security civilian employee in the competitive service who meets the following criteria? I have held, or currently hold either:
A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
If eligible, submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security, United States Coast Guard (USCG) civilian employee in the competitive service? You must submit your SF-50. 
 Yes, I am a current Department of Homeland Security, United States Coast Guard (USCG) civilian employee.
 No, I am not a current Department of Homeland Security, United States Coast Guard (USCG) civilian employee.


2.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualifications requirements for this position. 

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service which includes (1) serving as a Contract Officer’s Representative (COR) by performing comprehensive pre-award and post award contracting functions. (2) Producing budget formulation and execution to ensure proper alignment of organizational funds. (3) Conducting program an financial analysis by validating data, preparing projection and presenting findings for managerial decision- making. (4) Preparing procurement documentation ensuring that it maintains compliance with policies.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙