Position Title
Lead General Engineer
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-PC-26-13073647-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Luke AFB, AZ
 B. Carson, CA
 C. Denver, CO
 D. Saint Petersburg, FL
 E. Indianapolis, IN
 F. Hanscom AFB, MA
 G. Philadelphia, PA
 H. Fort Worth, TX


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lead General Engineer position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Leading teams, assigning workload, reviewing/approving work products, training, guiding, coaching and mentoring team members providing them the necessary tools/resources to perform their job duties/responsibilities. Applying, technical expertise in advanced engineering theories, principles, concepts, standards, and methods. Conducting market research and analysis in order to determine if a product/service included in a prime or subcontract proposal satisfies the FAR 2.101 commercial definition. Coordinating with contracting functions delivering technical pricing information to support fair and reasonable pricing. Recommending solutions to improve organization and administrative procedures and work processes. Briefing senior level officials on organizational performance measurements. Using effective oral and written communications and the use of office automation products to prepare and make formal and informal presentations of observations and recommendations developed during engineering surveillance activities.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


2.
The purpose of this question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.

 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in professional engineering. The curriculum for this degree must have been gained through a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a) statics, dynamics; b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; d) thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and g) any other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science of physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by professional registration or licensure. (This includes current registration as an Engineering Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by and State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in response A above.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least one year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙