Position Title
NONDESTRUCTIVE TESTER SUPERVISOR (T32, Merit)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13043065-AF-26-218 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard. (Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/MOS to include skill level. *


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
- Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
- Drill status and Full-time positions listed separately
- Duties listed under each position held (be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
- Employer's name and address
- Supervisor's name and contact information
- Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
- Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
- Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
- Tech school start and end dates to include month and year
- High school graduation date, if applicable
- AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


5.
Does your experience, training and resume support the General Experience criteria below?
WG - Experience or training which demonstrates the ability to set up and operate test equipment, use test apparatus to apply tests to material or products, record readings, observe and record established reactions, and classify according to defined categories.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Please read and respond to all the questions below. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


6.
In detail, explain your experience or training which demonstrates the ability to set up and operate test equipment, use test apparatus to apply tests to material or products, record readings, observe and record established reactions, and classify according to defined categories.


7.
In detail, explain your journeyman level knowledge and experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel.


8.
In detail, explain your experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines.


9.
In detail, explain your experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function.


10.
In detail, explain your experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes.


11.
In detail, please explain your experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.


12.
In detail, explain your knowledge of metals and ability to read blueprints.


13.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙