Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13008216-AR-26-554 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with duties assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with duties assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee, but my duties are NOT assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
REQUIRED SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:

In addition to journeyman level knowledge, applicants must have specialized experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel; experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines; experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function; experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes; experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.

Do you have the required specialized experience listed above?

(MUST address these specialized experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(WO1 - CW4)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.


4.
What is your current military rank?


5.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙