Position Title
Financial Management Specialist
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ST-13001120-26-RC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit documentation showing 1) your spouse's active-duty status and 2) your marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage).
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who:
Has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND
Has not held the grade level of the position being advertised AND/OR
Has not held the promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.
To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your organization.

Please do not submit an award SF-50.


 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who has:
held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; AND
held the target grade level of the position being advertised; OR
held the promotion potential to the target grade level of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, your organization, and your full performance level.  Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1."  Please do not submit an award SF-50.

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you claiming eligibility based on an OPM interchange agreement or other special authority?

You may be eligible under a special authority if you are a:

Former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System.
Former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff.
Former incumbent of a position brought into the competitive service.
Disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.
Former ACTION volunteer.
Current or former Foreign Service officer or employee.
Former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
Current or former employee of the U.S. Postal Service.

There are specific eligibility requirements for each of these special hiring authorities. Please read OPM's code of federal hiring regulations for more details.

 Yes
 No


8.
Were you formerly, but not currently, employed as a Federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have you never held the grade or full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.  Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or Career-Conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2);  AND
Appointment is in the Competitive Service (Position Occupied field is 1).
For more information, see Reading your SF-50 to Determine Service and Appointment Type (USAJOBS)...

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Financial Management Specialist position.
 I have a LL.M or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field ; OR three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, which demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the federal service performing such duties as: assisting with financial disbursement activities such as processing and or reviewing expenditures of appropriations, allotments, reimbursable accounts; researching analyzing and interpreting financial polices, laws, rules, and regulations and reviewing travel authorizations and vouchers for accuracy and validity.
 I have a combination of education and experience that may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 54. Add the two percentages.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-12 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Financial Management Specialist position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the federal service performing such duties as: aiding in planning and managing a variety of financial disbursement activities involving different and unrelated processes, such as appropriations, allotments, reimbursable accounts, and transfers of funds; conducting research and analysis to resolve unusual and complex problems; collects, analyzes, and validates cost data to manage resources for assigned program areas; conducting cost studies for a variety of decision-making processes involving program planning, procurement, contracting, budgetary actions, and financial resources.
 I do not have the experience described above.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-13 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Financial Management Specialist position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service performing such duties as: serving as certifying officer for the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund (VCF) and verifying the legality, propriety and correctness of payment; overseeing research and analysis to resolve unusual and complex problems dealing with substantial agency issues such as any improper and incorrect payments; advising management of reporting requirements, including all Treasury and OMB policies and practices; authorizing the disbursement of government funds in accordance with policy, precedent, and legal regulations; examining and reviewing all invoices and travel authorizations for compliance to ensure agency standards and other applicable laws, regulations, and procedures.
 I do not have the experience described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. These questions assess your technical proficiency in federal financial management, including the certification of payments, internal controls, and the synthesis of accounting data into actionable recommendations. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


1.
As a Financial Management Specialist responsible for approving and certifying payments, you encounter a high-dollar invoice that matches a valid obligation but lacks a specific receiving report or evidence of performance in the financial system. Which action best fulfills your fiduciary responsibility as a Certifying Officer?
 Certify the payment immediately to avoid Prompt Payment Act interest penalties, assuming the program office will upload the documentation later.
 Reject the invoice and request that the vendor resubmit it with a higher discount rate to offset the administrative delay.
 Withhold certification and proactively coordinate with the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) to verify that goods or services were received and accepted in accordance with the terms of the obligating document.
 Delegate the certification to a junior technician to mitigate personal liability for the transaction.


2.
An internal review of travel expense management reveals a trend of employees requesting reimbursement for luxury Uber & Lyft services, how would you respond to the findings?
 Update the travel policy to explicitly forbid luxury modes of transportation and implement an automated flag in the travel system to identify vouchers that appear to be part of a single trip.
 Ignore the trend as long as the total travel budget is not exceeded and all individual vouchers are under the threshold.
 Personally approve all future travel vouchers for the entire agency to ensure 100\% compliance.
 Recommend that the travel department switch to a paper-based system to make it harder for employees to submit multiple requests.
 Disapprove the request and explain why the cost is not allowed.
 Request to refer the employee for disciplinary actions through formal channels.


3.
When reviewing reports of obligations (such as the Open Obligation Report or ULO list), you find several dormant obligations from three fiscal years ago that still have remaining balances. What is the most appropriate recommendation to provide to management?
 Leave the funds as they are to serve as a "cushion" for unforeseen expenses in the current year.
 Direct the immediate de-obligation of all dormant funds without consulting program managers to maximize the return of expired funds to the Treasury.
 Perform a validation exercise with program officials to determine if the underlying requirement is complete, then process de-obligations for excess funds to improve the accuracy of the agency’s financial position.
 Re-classify the old obligations as "current year" expenses to simplify the reporting process.


4.
You are developing findings and recommendations following a review of an accounting record that showed significant non-compliance with the Anti-Deficiency Act (ADA). Which approach ensures your report is professional and effective?
 Focusing only on naming the individuals who made the error to ensure they are disciplined.
 Providing a clear description of the condition, the criteria (law/regulation) that was violated, the root cause of the breakdown, and a constructive recommendation for strengthening internal controls.
 Writing the report in highly technical jargon to limit the understanding of the findings to only the finance department.
 Recommending that all financial authority be centralized under your specific desk to prevent future errors.


5.
A new federal regulation changes the way accrued expenditures are recognized for service-based contracts. As a Financial Management Specialist, how should you adapt the current accounting process?
 Continue using the old method until the financial system is automatically updated by the software vendor.
 Analyze the new regulation, assess the impact on current contract portfolios, and advise leadership on necessary changes to the accrual logic and reporting templates.
 Request a permanent waiver from the regulation citing the complexity of the agency's existing contracts.
 Ask the program managers to decide how they want to record their own accruals.


6.
During a high-level briefing, a senior leader asks why a specific financial management report shows a significant increase in "unliquidated obligations" compared to the prior month. What is the most helpful response?
 State that the financial system is likely experiencing a glitch and the data should be disregarded.
 Provide a breakdown of the timing of new contract awards versus the lag in invoice processing, highlighting specific large-scale projects that drove the increase.
 Deflect the question to the budget formulation team, as they are responsible for the original funding.
 Inform the leader that fluctuations in unliquidated obligations are confidential and cannot be discussed in a group setting.


7.
The office is experiencing a major backlog for invoice processing. There is a deadline set for approving invoices. Later in the day after approving several invoices you believe you have approved an erroneous payment earlier. What would be your next course of action?
 Note the error in the tracking log and deduct the overpayment amount from the vendor’s next scheduled invoice to balance the accounts.
 Immediately notify your supervisor and attempt to stop or void the payment before it is processed by the Department of Treasury.
 Wait until the end of the day to finish the current backlog, then go back to review the specific invoice details to confirm if an actual error occurred.
 Contact the vendor directly to explain the mistake and request that they issue a refund check or credit memo once they receive the funds.
 Flag the invoice for the external auditors to review during the next quarterly audit cycle, as the payment has already been approved in the system.


8.
You are tasked with preparing an audit sample package to be presented for internal/external audit. When reviewing the paperwork for the sample, you realize that the support you have located is not sufficient to justify the transaction and may lead to a negative finding from the auditors. What would be your next steps?
 Contact the department or individual responsible for the original transaction and ask them to create a memo or summary justification to include in the file before the auditors arrive.
 Identify the transaction as problematic and select a different, well-documented transaction of a similar value to replace it in the audit sample.
 Conduct a thorough search for the missing documentation in electronic and physical archives; if the support remains insufficient, document the deficiency and report the finding to your supervisor or the audit lead.
 Include the paperwork in the audit sample as-is, assuming the auditor will ask for clarification or more information if they find the current support to be lacking.
 Note on the coversheet that while the physical receipts are missing, the amounts match the general ledger, and therefore the transaction should be considered verified based on the system entry.


9.
During the third quarter of the fiscal year, a program office submits a emergency request to obligate $150,000 for specialized contractor services. Upon reviewing the account, you determine that the program's remaining unobligated balance in that specific budget activity is only $$110,000, though the agency's overarching main appropriation has ample funds. The program manager asks you to process the full obligation immediately and adjust the internal budget allocations next month. Which of the following actions is legally and procedurally correct?

 Process the $150,000 obligation immediately, as long as the main agency appropriation is not overspent.
 Reject the full request and instruct the program office to wait until the next fiscal year .
 Refuse to process the obligation exceeding $$110,000 until a formal reprogramming or re-allocation of funds is executed and approved at the proper administrative level.
 Obligate $110,000 against the current account and record the remaining $40,000 as an informal administrative commitment against next quarter's allotment.


10.
During a year-end review of unliquidated obligations (ULOs), you identify a 2-year-old interagency agreement with an unexpended balance of $45,000. The performing agency confirms all work was completed six months ago, but no final billing was submitted. The underlying funds are annual appropriations that expired at the end of the prior fiscal year. What is the proper course of action regarding the $45,000 balance?

 Deobligate the $45,000 immediately and re-obligate it toward an urgent current-year software purchase.
 Deobligate the $45,000; the expired funds return to the expired account and remain available only for valid adjustments to obligations incurred during that specific prior period.
 Transfer the $45,000 directly into the agency's current-year working capital fund.
 Leave the obligation open indefinitely in case the performing agency submits late invoices next fiscal year.


11.
In late August, a division director asks to enter into a 12-month commercial service contract for routine, severable IT helpdesk support using expiring annual operations funds. The performance period is scheduled to run from September 30th of the current fiscal year through September 29th of the following fiscal year. As a GS-13, how should you advise executive leadership?

 The contract cannot be awarded using current FY annual funds under any circumstances because zero performance occurs in the FY.
 Under 41 U.S.C. § 3902 (FAR 32.703-3), the agency may award a 12-month severable service contract crossing fiscal years using current-year annual funds, provided the contract is funded at award.
 The contract can be awarded, but only if the contractor agrees to bill all 12 months of service before September 30th.
 The contract must be converted to an unseverable task order to legally justify current FY annual funds.


12.
Congress has failed to pass full-year appropriations, and your agency is operating under a 60-day Continuing Resolution (CR) that restricts funding to the "current rate" based on the previous year's enacted level. A major high-priority program requests to launch a brand-new $12M initiative and execute an initial $3M solicitation during the CR period, claiming the total annual budget enacted later in the year will cover it. How should you evaluate and resolve this request for agency leadership?

 Approve the $3M obligation, provided the amount fits within the agency's overall 60-day CR apportionment.
 Approve the request, but require the program to insert an "Availability of Funds" clause in the contract.
 Advise leadership that CRs legally prohibit initiating new starts or expanding programs not funded in the prior fiscal year, regardless of overall funding rates or future budget expectations.
 Direct the program manager to reclassify the initiative as an administrative maintenance cost to bypass CR limitations.


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙