Position Title
Lead Medical Instrument Technician (EKG)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13073600-26-MH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Instrument Technician- EKG, position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. For each question below, choose the response that best describes your qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7 402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless
they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in written and spoken English in order to meet the basic
requirement of this position.

Are you proficient in the spoken and written English Language?

 Yes
 No


2.
For GS-8: Applicants applying under this announcement must possess two years of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level, Medical Instrument Technician (EKG). Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to specialized procedures such as perform complicated examinations or treatments for which there are no standard instructions or procedures. They utilize knowledge of anatomy and physiology including an in depth understanding of the functioning of the major systems and internal organs to interpret requests and to recognize the need for additional tests or a different position. Knowledge of pharmacology including the classification and administration of drugs, patient responses, and common dosages as related to this specialty is required. The technician has the ability to perform Signal Averaged ECG, Tilt table monitoring, electrophysiology monitoring, and event monitoring. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.

Do you possess the experience as described above? NOTE: Your resume must provide enough details to support your response to this question.

 Yes
 No


3.
In addition to required experience above, candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of pharmacology related to specialized procedures.
Ability to provide briefings and orientations to hospital staff including physicians.
Knowledge of a variety of related acute disorders and diseases, their effects on organs, and methods of treatment.
Ability to perform more complex procedures such as SAECG (Signal Averaged ECG), Tilt table monitoring, electrophysiology monitoring, and event monitoring.
Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.
Ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower graded technicians.
Ability to conduct in-service training on the EKG equipment and related instrumentation.
Ability to lead and manage daily work assignments.
Do you possess the KSA's described in the paragraph above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙