Position Title
Medical Records Technician - Coder Outpatient
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12827375-26-SJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 12, 2025 to Wednesday, November 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Please be sure to submit all the supporting documents as they apply to your eligibility and qualifications. The checklist for the supporting documents can also be found in the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Applicants appointed to direct patient care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education: Select the answer below that best describes your creditable experience and/or education for this position.
 I have one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of health records.
 I have an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records). (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I completed an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have the equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following education/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder). (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).
 I do not have the creditable experience and/or, or education as stated in A through D above.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding where you received your training/education. If you did not receive training/education indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


In addition to the education or experience or a combination of education/experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills and, abilities:


3.
Certification: I have one of the following certifications and it is current and in good standing:
(A copy of the certification must be uploaded with your application package)
 Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 I am a current Medical Records Technician Coder employed by the Department of Veteran Affairs, Veteran Health Administration, therefore this question does not apply to me. (PLEASE PROVIDE A COPY OF YOUR MOST RECENT SF-50 INDICATING YOU ARE CURRENTLY SERVING IN THE MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN - CODER OCCUPATIONAL SERIES)
 I do not have one of the certifications as stated in A through C above or a current Medical Records Technician Coder employed by the Department of Veteran Affairs, Veteran Health Administration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grandfathering Provision: All persons employed in VHA as a A MRT (Coder) employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/10/2019) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, employees may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0675-08) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.

Do you meet the Grandfathering Provision for the MRT (Coder) position?
 Yes
 No


Grade Determinations: Medical Records Technician Coder- Outpatient


5.
Medical Records Technician - Coder Outpatient, at the GS-4 (Entry Level) must have completed Experience or Education. None beyond basic requirements.
 I have completed at least one year at the GS-4 level or equivalent of qualifying experience as an MRT or have completed an associate's degree. I have the ability to acquire the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform the duties of the position.
 My education, experience or education/experience combination is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Medical Records Technician - Coder Outpatient, at the GS-5 level must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade( GS-4) level or have successfully completed of an a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or technology.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to use health information technology and various office software products used in MRT (Coder) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, etc.).
Ability to navigate through and abstract pertinent information from health records.
Knowledge of the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT guidelines.
Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology, human anatomy/physiology, and disease processes to accurately assign codes to inpatient and outpatient episodes of care based on health record documentation.
Knowledge of The Joint Commission requirements, CMS, and/or health record documentation guidelines.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.
(Must clearly be demonstrated in your resume)
 I have completed at least one year at the GS-4 level or equivalent of qualifying experience as an MRT or meet required education as listed that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform the duties of the position.
 My experience and or education is not reflected in any above statement.


7.
Medical Records Technician - Coder Outpatient, at the GS-6 level must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade(GS-5) level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation.
Ability to determine whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support the assigned codes. This includes the ability to take appropriate actions if health record contents are not complete, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
Ability to apply laws and regulations on the confidentiality of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and HIPAA).
Ability to accurately apply the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT Guidelines to various coding scenarios.
Comprehensive knowledge of current classification systems, such as ICD CM, PCS, CPT, HCPCS, and skill in applying classifications to both inpatient and outpatient records based on health record documentation.
(Must clearly be demonstrated in your resume)
 I have completed at least one year at the GS-5 level or equivalent of qualifying experience as an MRT that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform the duties of the position.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


8.
Medical Records Technician - Coder Outpatient, at the GS-7 level must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade(GS-6) level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Skill in applying current coding classifications to a variety of inpatient and outpatient specialty care areas to accurately reflect service and care provided based on documentation in the health record.
Ability to communicate with clinical staff for specific coding and documentation issues, such as recording inpatient and outpatient diagnoses and procedures, the correct sequencing of diagnoses and/or procedures, and the relationship between health record documentation and code assignment.
Ability to research and solve coding and documentation related issues.
Skill in reviewing and correcting system or processing errors and ensuring all assigned work is complete.
(Must clearly be demonstrated in your resume)
 I have completed at least one year at the GS-6 level or equivalent of qualifying experience as an MRT that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform the duties of the position.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


9.
Medical Records Technician - Coder Outpatient, at the GS-8 (Full Performance Level) must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade(GS-7) level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the health record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient.
Ability to accurately perform the full scope of outpatient coding, including ambulatory surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and outpatient encounters, and/or inpatient professional fee services coding.
Skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work or have gaps in specificity, and the ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines.
(Must clearly be demonstrated in your resume)
 I have completed at least one year at the GS-7 level or equivalent of qualifying experience as an MRT that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform the duties of the position.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙