Position Title
Clothing Designer (Patterns)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLATrpSpt-26-12971863-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 For the GS-11, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Display thorough knowledge of the principles and techniques of uniform and clothing design, patterns, drawings, grading/sizing, commercial practices, characteristics of materials and finishes and various fabrication and manufacturing techniques. Experience with and knowledge of the principles and techniques of tailoring, pattern making and size grading, and the ability to translate designs into patterns using traditional and modern methods. Knowledge of multiple CAD software systems and equipment in order to accomplish assigned work including storing master patterns, assist others in equipment operation and maintenance, etc. Experienced judgment in modifying, adapting, or making compromises with standard guidelines and in developing approaches and solutions to complex features.
 For the GS-11, I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in one the following: textile technology, tailoring, clothing design, clothing production, anthropometry, anatomy, or physiology.
 For the GS-11, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 For the GS-09, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Display knowledge of the principles and techniques of uniform and clothing design, patterns, drawings, grading/sizing, commercial practices, characteristics of materials and finishes and various fabrication and manufacturing techniques. Experience with and knowledge of the principles and techniques of tailoring, pattern making and size grading, and the ability to translate designs into patterns using traditional and modern methods. Knowledge of CAD software systems and equipment in order to accomplish assigned work including storing master patterns, assist others in equipment operation and maintenance, etc. Judgment in modifying, adapting, or making compromises with standard guidelines and in developing approaches and solutions to complex features.
 For the GS-09, I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. in one the following: textile technology, tailoring, clothing design, clothing production, anthropometry, anatomy, or physiology.
 For the GS-09, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in D and E above.
 For the GS-07, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Display knowledge of the principles and techniques of uniform and clothing design, patterns, drawings, grading/sizing, commercial practices, characteristics of materials and finishes and various fabrication and manufacturing techniques. Experience with and knowledge of the principles and techniques of tailoring, pattern making and size grading, and the ability to translate designs into patterns using traditional and modern methods. Knowledge of CAD software systems and equipment in order to accomplish assigned work including storing master patterns, assist others in equipment operation and maintenance, etc. Judgment in modifying, adapting, or making compromises with standard guidelines and in developing approaches and solutions to complex features.
 For the GS-07, I possess a bachelor's degree in one the following: textile technology, tailoring, clothing design, clothing production, anthropometry, anatomy, or physiology, AND meet Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) based on one of the following: (1) class standing (upper third standing in graduating class); (2) grade-point average (2.95 overall or over the last two years of bachelor’s degree -or- 3.45 in your major field or over the last two years in your major); or (3) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 For the GS-07, successful completion of a 4-year vocational high school course in the garment trade, tailoring, or clothing design is equivalent to 1 year of general experience.
 For the GS-07, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in G and H above.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


Assessment 2
1.
What factors should be considered when selecting fabric for a garment?
 Stretch
 Durability
 Weight
 All of the Above
 None of the Above


2.
What is the difference between draping and flat pattern making?
 Draping involves creating patterns based on precise measurements and flat pattern making involves adjustments based on how the material behaves.
 Flat patterns are used for intricate designs and unique shapes where draping is for traditional cuts of fabric
 Draping creates the structure and design of a garment in real-time, usually on a dress form, and flat patterns are created on paper or 2D design using precise measurements.
 Flat pattern making and draping are the same process, just called different names within the design industry.


3.
What is an apparel marker?
 A listing of pattern parts
 A layout of the pattern pieces used to make a garment arranged in a configuration intended to reduce fabric waste
 A tool used to draw clothing
 None of the above


4.
What is marker efficiency?
 The durability of a fabric
 The cost effectiveness of a fabric
 The factor to account for cutting waste
 The sustainability of the fabric


5.
What is pattern grading?
 The process of turning base size patterns into additional sizes using specified increments
 The degree of correctness of a pattern
 The direction of which you place a pattern on fabric
 The measurements of a finished garment


6.
True or False: A knit fabric usually has no stretch.
 True
 False


7.
What is measurement tolerance?
 A defined value by which garments can differ from established specifications
 Symbols for construction printed on the patterns
 A document describing or identifying precise requirements for production
 Excess fabric cut or trimmed away after the seam has been stitched


8.
True or False:  A small v shape or clip marking the edge of the pattern piece to indicate which seams match.
 True
 False


9.
True or False: The grain line of a fabric runs in the width of the fabric
 True
 False


10.
What is a flat sketch?
 A technical illustration of a garment
 The weave of a fabric
 A fashion drawing
 A layout of pattern pieces


11.
What is CAD?
 Clothing and Design
 Cutting and Draping
 Cats and Dogs
 Computer Aided Design


12.
What is not a term for fusible?
 Interfacing
 Self-fabric
 Laminate
 Thermal Bonding


13.
True or False: A selvedge is a finished lower edge of a garment to prevent raw edges from fraying to tearing.
 True
 False


14.
What seam is best used for strong, permanent seams?
 Whip Stitch
 Slip Stitch
 Running Stitch
 Lockstitch


15.
True or False - A seam allowance is consistent around the entire pattern piece
 True
 False


16.
What is not a common point of measure?
 Center back length
 Chest
 Waist
 Wingspan


17.
What is the fabric yield?
 How many yards of fabric on a roll
 The amount fabric needed to create a garment expressed is yards
 The weight of the garment
 The width of the fabric


18.
Which seam is not preferred on a knit?
 Overlock
 Chain Stitch
 Safety Stitch
 Lock Stitch


19.
True or False: On an X/Y Axis - X is is vertical, Y is horizontal.
 True
 False


20.
True or false: The requested inseam length of a trouser is 32" +/- 1". The finished garment measures 33". The inseam length is within tolerance.
 True
 False


21.
True or False: The requested Center Back length measurement is 27" +/- ½". The flat pattern measures 26" including seam allowance. The pattern is correct.
 True
 False


22.
A Regular size coat has a sleeve length of 35". A customer is requesting a finished measurement of 37". How many inches should you add or subtract?
 2.5
 -2
 2
 3


23.
A size 10 Jacket has a finished waist measurement of 29". The customer needs the waist to be 31". The jacket has a side seam only, no center or princess seams. How many inches will be added to each seam to get the requested measurement of 31"?
 1"
 2"
 0.25"
 0.5"


24.
What is a drill hole?
 A fabric defect
 An opening for a button to pass through
 Internal markings to indicate placements of darts, tucks, pockets, etc.
 A stitching defect that occurs when fabric rolls undesirably


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙