Position Title
Custodial Worker (Jim Creek)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12985408 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have the ability to perform variety of janitorial/custodial duties to maintain a clean, safe buildings, cabins, rooms, and grounds?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the following skills:
Knowledge and skill sufficient to read signs and follow oral and written instructions.
Ability to work safely while moving lightweight objects. 
Ability to operate and use janitorial tools, equipment, and supplies such as floor buffers, vacuum cleaners, cleaning compounds and solutions and perform minor maintenance on equipment.
Do you have experience in using these skills in the workplace?
 Yes, more than one year of experience in using these skills in the workplace
 Yes, less than one year of experience in using these skills in the workplace
 No, I do not possess these skills


3.
Do you agree to work the hours that will meet the needs of the program to include, nights, holidays, and weekends?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙