Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12958501-ICTAP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a veteran that is eligible for consideration under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-13: To qualify at the GS-13 level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized Experience is defined as ALL the following:

- Evaluating documentation for consistency or compliance with policies, guidelines, directives, and procedures; AND
- Analyzing issues related to civil or criminal forfeitures that may include investigations leading to forfeiture, disposition of forfeited properties, or distribution of proceeds; AND
- Researching policy in order to provide guidance and assistance to stakeholders; AND
- Program planning, business process improvements, or assisting project management teams.
-Conducting research or data collection then making recommendations based on research.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the GS-13 specialized experience statement.
 I fully meet all aspects of the GS-13 level of specialized experience as defined in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet or exceed the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙