Position Title
SENIOR TECHNICAL ADVISOR FOR NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DEST-13004588-26-TB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


2.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts with your application.
 I have a physical science degree, engineering degree, or mathematics degree that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position, SN-0806-00, grade level or equivalent pay band. I have a minimum of 7 to 10 years of specialized experience in extensive theoretical and applied background in one or more of the technical disciplines  like Nuclear Safety Analysis, Severe Accident and Source Term Evaluation, Fuel Performance or risk-informed performance-based licensing approaches for advanced reactors.
 I have 7 to 10 years of specialized experience in extensive theoretical and applied background in one or more of the technical disciplines one or more technical disciplines like Nuclear Safety Analysis, Severe Accident and Source Term Evaluation, Fuel Performance or risk-informed performance-based licensing approaches for advanced reactors.
 I do not have 7 to 10 years of specialized experience in extensive theoretical and applied background in one or more of the technical disciplines one or more technical disciplines like Nuclear Safety Analysis, Severe Accident and Source Term Evaluation, Fuel Performance or risk-informed performance-based licensing approaches for advanced reactors ; perform it at a proficient level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙