Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Defense Microelectronics Activity
Announcement Number
DMEA-26-12843985-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, December 5, 2025 to Friday, December 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Contract Specialist, NH-1102-03 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all of the statements below completely before making your selection.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (NH-02 or GS-11) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Interpreting and utilizing Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), or applicable acquisition regulations supplement and local policies in the administration, selection, and negotiating strategy of a contract or procurement; compiling and evaluating service, requirements, and/or cost data for a variety of pre-award and post-award procurement activities so to negotiate procurements of a new or innovative research, related materials, equipment and/or service; Evaluating bid responsiveness, contractor responsibility, and contractor performance; performing the full range of pre and post award contractual actions required in the procurement of services and supplies utilizing negotiated and/or simplified acquisition. (Experience must be reflected in resume.)
 My experience is not reflected in the statements above.


2.
The basic requirements established by the Department of Defense for the 1102 series requires you meet education and/or experience to qualify for the position. Please select the answer that best fits your qualifying experience and/or education.

 I possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees.
 I am a current civilian employee in DoD, who occupied a GS-1102 position or contracting position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000. SF-50s must be provided to show applicant is a current 1102 and has been in this series since October 1, 2000 if using this exception.
 I am a current civilian employee in DoD, who served as a military member in a similar occupational specialty to the GS-1102 on or before September 30, 2000.
 I do not meet the education requirements OR the military/civilian employee options listed above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙