Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-129451872-AF-26-023 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 CPTF) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 CPTF) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E1-E4)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-7/9 Financial Management Analyst.
 I HAVE experience, education, or training , 1) in administrative, professional, technical, investigative, financial or other responsible work requiring analyzing problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; plan and organize work; and communicate effectively orally and in writing, and 2) using computer and automation system.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-7/9 Financial Management Analyst.
 I HAVE at least 12 months experience, education, or training, 1) validating financial data, analyzing unusual trends for corrective action, maintaining and researching records, and preparing reports, and 2) in correcting coding or other errors that result in computer generated rejects.
 I HAVE at least 24 months experience, education, or training, 1) which involved commonly used financial control system regulations, policies, and procedures and 2) in managing, analyzing, organizing, and preparing reports.
 I DO NOT have at least 12 or 24 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙