Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN (Inpatient/Outpatient Coder)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12846985-26-JAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 8, 2025 to Thursday, December 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Does your experience/education meet one of the criteria listed bow?

Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medicalterminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and thestructure and format of a health records.

Education. An associate's degree from an accredited college or universityrecognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records);

OR,

Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding trainingprogram of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy andphysiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPTcoding. The training program must have led to eligibility for codingcertification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution musthave been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, orcomparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed;

OR

Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditableexperience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. Thefollowing educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining educationand creditable experience:

Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medicalterminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, andone year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of healthinformation technology courses.

Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen,medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training programgiven by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medicaland professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis forup to six months of experience provided the training program included courses inanatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also,requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paidemployment equivalent to a MRT (Coder).
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one of the following certifications?

Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:

(1)Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(2)Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(3)Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

**NOTE: Mastery level certification is required for all positions above the journey level; however, for clinical documentation improvement specialist assignments, a clinical documentation improvement certification may be substituted for a mastery level certification
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you agree to maintain the your credentials as listed below and accept the terms of a lapse in credentials?

Loss of Credential.

Following initial certification, credentials must be maintained through rigorous continuing education, ensuring the highest level of competency for employers and consumers. An employee in this occupation who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment. At the discretion of the appointing official, an employee may be reassigned to another occupation for which he/she qualifies, if a placement opportunity exists.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you Proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lowergrade level (GS-7)?

This is the journey level for this assignment. MRTs (Coder) at this level perform the full scope of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. MRTs(Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. Inpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to assign ICD CM and PCS codes for diagnosis, complications/major complications, comorbid/major comorbid conditions, surgery, and procedures for accurate assignment of DRGs. Outpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to accurately assign ICD CM codes for diagnosis and complications, and CPT/HCPCS codes for surgeries, procedures, evaluation and management services, and inpatient professional services. They independently review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. (This is only an excerpt and no the full duty assignment description to asses your experience for the position.)
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙