Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12789360 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2025 to Sep 07, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with Command, Navy Region Northwest Fleet and Family Readiness Programs.  Please complete the following questionnaire to determine your eligibility.  Failure to complete this assessment may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please describe your length of experience preparing official correspondence, reports, and other documents that provide information to senior level officials.
 I have 3 or more years of experience in this task in a DoD organization.
 I have 3 or more years of experience in this task in a civilian organization.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in this task in a DoD organization.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in this task in a civilian organization.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in this task.
 I have no practical experience in this task.


2.
What is your work experience in administrative functions, to include: excellent typing skills, ability to use a personal computer with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, data base and presentation software?
 More than 4 years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheets and database software.
 Two to 3 years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheets and database software.
 Less than 2 years or no experience in administrative functions.
 No practical experience in this competency.


3.
What is your skill level with accounting procedures, billing processes, purchasing, and requisitioning procedures?
 I have at least 3 years of experience in this competency.
 I have at least 2 years of experience in this competency.
 I have at least 1 year of experience in this competency.
 I have no practical experience in this competency.


4.
Please share your level of experience maintaining your supervisor's calendar and scheduling meetings or conferences.
 I have at least 2 years of experience maintaining this task in a military organization.
 I have at least 2 years of experience maintaining this task in a civilian organization.
 I have 1-2 years of experience maintaining this task.
 I have less than 1 year of experience maintaining this task.
 I have no practical experience maintaining this task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Incumbent may be required to handle sensitive and/or classified materials.  Do you have experience dealing with classified materials?
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you possess at least two years of experience in an administrative position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙