Position Title
FUEL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM WORKER - TITLE 32
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-12981841-AF-26-132 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AOC
1.
What is your current military grade?
E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
O-1
O-2
O-3
O-4
O-5
O-6
O-7
O-8


2.
Are you a current qualified service member from a branch of the US Armed Forces who is eligible and willing to transfer to the Kentucky Air National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions to the best of your knowledge and ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience which demonstrates the ability to follow instructions and to safely operate the type of equipment required to accomplish the duties of the position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least 18 months experience operating, maintaining, repairing, troubleshooting and overhauling fuel systems and components?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least 18 months experience initiating and controlling the movement and storage of fuel supplies by operating high pressure systems with a series of terminals connected by cross-country pipelines or multi-fuel storage and distribution facilities connected by a network of internal pipelines?
 Yes
 No


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙