Position Title
Quality Assurance Specialist
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-P3-26-12946331-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Anniston, AL
Birmingham, AL
Birmingham, AL
Centre, AL
Courtland, AL
Decatur, AL
Enterprise, AL
Hope Hull, AL
Huntsville, AL
Madison, AL
Ozark, AL
Talladega, AL
Tallassee, AL
Troy, AL
Camden, AR
Fayetteville, AR
Hot Springs, AR
Magnolia, AR
Texarkana, AR
Bloomfield, CT
Bridgeport, CT
Cheshire, CT
Colchester, CT
Danbury, CT
East Granby, CT
East Hartford, CT
East Windsor, CT
Granby, CT
Hartford, CT
Manchester, CT
Middletown, CT
Newington, CT
Shelton, CT
Simsbury, CT
South Windsor, CT
Stratford, CT
Thomaston, CT
Torrington, CT
West Hartford, CT
Windsor Locks, CT
Frederica, DE
Middletown, DE
New Castle, DE
Newark, DE
Clearwater, FL
Crestview, FL
De Leon Springs, FL
Eglin AFB, FL
Eglin AFB, FL
Eglin AFB, FL
Fort Lauderdale, FL
Fort Walton Beach, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Kennedy Space Center, FL
Largo, FL
Malabar, FL
Melbourne, FL
Miami, FL
New Port Richey, FL
Ocala, FL
Oldsmar, FL
Orlando, FL
Palm Bay, FL
Pensacola, FL
Perry, FL
Pompano Beach, FL
Riviera Beach, FL
Saint Augustine, FL
Saint Petersburg, FL
Sarasota, FL
Sarasota County, FL
Shalimar, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Tampa, FL
Titusville, FL
West Palm Beach, FL
Weston, FL
Albany, GA
Atlanta, GA
Atlanta, GA
Brunswick, GA
Columbus, GA
Marietta, GA
Savannah, GA
Smyrna, GA
Valdosta, GA
Warner Robins, GA
Arlington Heights, IL
Bedford Park, IL
Cahokia, IL
Chicago, IL
Chicago, IL
Downers Grove, IL
Elwood, IL
Marion, IL
O'Fallon, IL
Rock Island, IL
Rockford, IL
Rolling Meadows, IL
Spring Grove, IL
Fort Wayne, IN
Indianapolis, IN
Mount Vernon, IN
South Bend, IN
Paola, KS
Wichita, KS
Winfield, KS
Corbin, KY
Corbin, KY
Danville, KY
Lexington, KY
Louisville, KY
Madisonville, KY
Baton Rouge, LA
Lake Charles, LA
New Orleans, LA
Shreveport, LA
Shreveport, LA
Slidell, LA
Saco, ME
Sanford, ME
Baltimore, MD
Beltsville, MD
Bethesda, MD
Clarksburg, MD
Cockeysville, MD
Cumberland, MD
Elkton, MD
Garrett County, MD
Hagerstown, MD
Harmans, MD
Hollywood, MD
Kensington, MD
Laurel, MD
Linthicum, MD
Nottingham, MD
Patuxent River, MD
Salisbury, MD
Sykesville, MD
Andover, MA
Ayer, MA
Beverly, MA
Boston, MA
Braintree, MA
Cambridge, MA
Chelmsford, MA
Chicopee, MA
Fitchburg, MA
Hanscom AFB, MA
Hingham, MA
Lynn, MA
Mansfield, MA
Marion, MA
Marlborough, MA
New Bedford, MA
North Billerica, MA
Northampton, MA
Pittsfield, MA
Taunton, MA
Tewksbury, MA
Walpole, MA
Westford, MA
Westover Air Reserve Base, MA
Woburn, MA
Worcester, MA
Ann Arbor, MI
Cadillac, MI
Detroit, MI
Grand Rapids, MI
Kalamazoo, MI
Muskegon, MI
Sterling Heights, MI
Warren, MI
Bloomington, MN
Burnsville, MN
Fridley, MN
Minneapolis, MN
Twin Cities, MN
Wayzata, MN
Biloxi, MS
Columbus, MS
Forest, MS
Gulfport, MS
Jackson, MS
Kiln, MS
Madison, MS
Meridian, MS
Moss Point, MS
Oxford, MS
Shannon, MS
Stennis Space Center, MS
Taylorsville, MS
West Point, MS
Wiggins, MS
Affton, MO
Arnold, MO
Ferguson, MO
Gladstone, MO
Hazelwood, MO
Joplin, MO
Joplin, MO
Saint Charles, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Saint Peters, MO
Washington, MO
West Plains, MO
Whiteman AFB, MO
Missoula, MT
Lincoln, NE
Bedford, NH
Hooksett, NH
Hudson, NH
Laconia, NH
Londonderry, NH
Manchester, NH
Merrimack, NH
Merrimack County, NH
Nashua, NH
Pease AFB, NH
Peterborough, NH
Portsmouth, NH
Allenwood, NJ
Belleville, NJ
Berlin, NJ
Budd Lake, NJ
Camden, NJ
Cherry Hill, NJ
Cinnaminson, NJ
Clifton, NJ
Colts Neck, NJ
Earle Naval Ammunition Depot, NJ
Florence, NJ
Hackensack, NJ
High Bridge, NJ
Leonia, NJ
Linden, NJ
Moorestown, NJ
Morris Plains, NJ
Mount Laurel, NJ
Mountainside, NJ
North Bergen, NJ
Paterson, NJ
Pennsauken, NJ
Picatinny Arsenal, NJ
Springfield, NJ
Totowa, NJ
Trenton, NJ
Wayne, NJ
Whippany, NJ
Amityville, NY
Bay Shore, NY
Bohemia, NY
Brooklyn, NY
Buffalo, NY
Deer Park, NY
East Aurora, NY
Endicott, NY
Falconer, NY
Farmingdale, NY
Garden City, NY
Greenlawn, NY
Horseheads, NY
Huntington, NY
Ithaca, NY
Mount Vernon, NY
New Hyde Park, NY
New York, NY
Niagara Falls, NY
Orchard Park, NY
Owego, NY
Rochester, NY
Silver Creek, NY
Smithtown, NY
Syracuse, NY
Troy, NY
Uniondale, NY
West Babylon, NY
Asheville, NC
Charlotte, NC
Fayetteville, NC
Goldsboro, NC
Greensboro, NC
Monroe, NC
Raleigh, NC
Rocky Mount, NC
Shelby, NC
Grand Forks, ND
Akron, OH
Amelia, OH
Barberton, OH
Bratenahl, OH
Chagrin Falls, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Cleveland, OH
Columbus, OH
Dayton, OH
Elyria, OH
Euclid, OH
Evendale, OH
Fairfield, OH
Fairfield, OH
Fairfield, OH
Galion, OH
Geneva, OH
Heath, OH
Lima, OH
Mansfield, OH
Mason, OH
Painesville, OH
Salem, OH
Troy, OH
Vandalia, OH
Whitehall, OH
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
Elgin, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Tulsa, OK
Tulsa, OK
Allegheny County, PA
Atglen, PA
Bethlehem, PA
Bethlehem, PA
Bridgeport, PA
Bristol, PA
Carbondale, PA
Carlisle Barracks, PA
Cheswick, PA
Collegeville, PA
Coraopolis, PA
Corry, PA
Croydon, PA
Erie, PA
Exton, PA
Fairless Hills, PA
Herminie, PA
Irwin, PA
Jenkintown, PA
Johnstown, PA
King of Prussia, PA
Langhorne, PA
Lansdale, PA
Lititz, PA
Meadville, PA
Media, PA
Monroeville, PA
New Castle, PA
New Cumberland, PA
Newtown, PA
Norristown, PA
North Wales, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
Reading, PA
Red Lion, PA
Ridley Park, PA
Scottdale, PA
Somerset, PA
Springfield, PA
Springfield, PA
Tobyhanna, PA
Uniontown, PA
Uniontown, PA
Warminster, PA
Warren, PA
York, PA
Clear Lake City, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Dallas, TX
Dallas, TX
Dallas, TX
Fort Sam Houston, TX
Fort Worth, TX
Fort Worth, TX
Grand Prairie, TX
Grand Prairie, TX
Greenville, TX
Harlingen, TX
Houston, TX
Houston, TX
Houston, TX
Hurst, TX
Kingsville, TX
Lufkin, TX
McKinney, TX
Plano, TX
Plano, TX
Richardson, TX
Richardson, TX
San Antonio, TX
Waco, TX
Burlington, VT
Rutland, VT
Vergennes, VT
Williston, VT
Blacksburg, VA
Bridgewater, VA
Chantilly, VA
Charlottesville, VA
Chesapeake, VA
Culpeper, VA
Dulles Airport, VA
Dulles Airport, VA
Fairfax, VA
Falls Church, VA
Falls Church, VA
Fort Eustis, VA
Fort Lee, VA
Hampton, VA
Herndon, VA
Lynchburg, VA
Manassas, VA
Marion, VA
McLean, VA
Norfolk, VA
Radford, VA
Reston, VA
Richmond, VA
Roanoke, VA
Sterling, VA
Vesta, VA
Navy Yard City, WA
Bridgeport, WV
Huntington, WV
Huntington, WV
Kearneysville, WV
Keyser, WV
Antigo, WI
Appleton, WI
Appleton, WI
Appleton, WI
Grantsburg, WI
Janesville, WI
La Crosse, WI
Madison, WI
Merrill, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Oshkosh, WI
Rhinelander, WI
Rice Lake, WI
Sauk City, WI
Spooner, WI
Waukesha, WI
Waukesha County, WI


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


8.
Please provide your preferred DCMA approved location(s) you are interested in working (DCMA Location List), not all locations may be available.
**This is not a remote work position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Quality Assurance Specialist position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Performing risk assessments; Developing surveillance plans; Performing inspections and acceptance of contractor products; and Providing continuous process improvements related to agency policy and guidance.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
A major defect is found in a critical supplier component during final assembly. Identify the immediate required action.

 Initiate a formal root cause analysis and halt production of affected units.
 Halt production and notify the supplier regarding the defect.
 Document the defect in the quality database and monitor further assemblies.
 Remove the defective component and continue assembly operations.
 Ignore the defect and approve the final assembly.


3.
Evaluating a new quality management system demands prioritizing a specific factor. Select the factor holding the highest importance.

 Integration capabilities with current manufacturing software systems.
 Cost of implementation versus projected short-term savings.
 Alignment with strategic organizational objectives and compliance requirements.
 Training time required for floor staff adoption.
 Aesthetic design of the user interface.


4.
During an external audit, an auditor identifies a recurring process deviation. Select the optimal response for the quality lead.

 Blame the deviation on newly hired personnel.
 Accept the finding without requesting clarification or providing context.
 Dispute the finding using anecdotal evidence from floor managers.
 Explain the process deviation and offer immediate localized corrections.
 Acknowledge the finding, provide relevant historical data, and commit to developing a corrective action plan.


5.
Establishing statistical process control requires the initial determination of a foundational element. Identify the required foundational element.

 Frequency of visual inspections during the production cycle.
 Budget allocated for scrap material processing.
 Process baseline capability and normal variation limits.
 Names of production supervisors assigned to the shift.
 Maximum acceptable number of defective units per batch.


6.
A quality assurance division faces budget reductions while workload increases. Identify the management strategy best addressing the challenge.

 Conduct a value stream mapping exercise to eliminate non-value-added activities and optimize resources.
 Prioritize critical quality checks and reduce frequency of low-risk inspections.
 Request voluntary overtime from current staff members.
 Randomly assign uncompleted tasks to available personnel across different departments.
 Cease automated quality inspections until funding returns.


7.
Implementing a new enterprise-wide quality policy requires gaining support from diverse stakeholders. Identify the approach ensuring successful adoption.

 Distribute the policy via email and require read-receipt confirmations.
 Present the finalized policy at an executive meeting for mandatory sign-off.
 Enforce the policy immediately and address complaints during subsequent audits.
 Allow individual departments absolute freedom regarding policy adoption.
 Engage cross-functional leaders early in the drafting phase to incorporate diverse operational perspectives.


8.
Assessing team performance reveals inconsistent application of testing protocols. Select the optimal resolution.

 Pair underperforming staff with experienced mentors for observation.
 Develop standardized training modules and conduct competency evaluations for designated personnel.
 Ignore observed inconsistencies upon verifying acceptable final product quality.
 Rewrite the testing protocols to match current inconsistent practices.
 Issue written warnings to personnel deviating from established protocols.


9.
Strategic planning for a quality assurance department must primarily align with a specific organizational document. Identify the correct document.

 Previous calendar year departmental performance metrics.
 Annual departmental budget request justification.
 Employee handbook regarding attendance policies.
 Overarching agency mission and long-term strategic plan.
 Most recent external audit summary report.


10.
Resolving a conflict between production schedules and quality holds requires understanding a specific organizational dynamic. Identify the necessary dynamic.

 Specific performance metrics used to evaluate production managers.
 Historical animosity between specific agency divisions.
 Lunch schedules of the involved personnel.
 Personal relationships between quality inspectors and assembly line workers.
 Competing priorities of mission readiness versus compliance constraints across leadership structures.


11.
Navigating a complex bureaucracy to expedite a critical deviation waiver involves interacting with multiple approval levels. Identify the essential knowledge area.

 Formal chain of command and informal influence networks among key decision-makers.
 Exact formatting requirements for the deviation waiver form.
 Geographic locations of the various approval offices.
 Current political affiliations of agency heads.
 Names of administrative assistants for senior executives.


12.
Proposing a major change to quality regulations requires identifying potential resistance early. Identify the action ensuring early identification.

 Waiting for complaints to arise after implementation.
 Asking external consultants for predictions regarding internal reactions.
 Conducting a poll among entry-level quality technicians.
 Reviewing suggestion box submissions from the past quarter.
 Analyzing historical responses of different directorates to previous regulatory modifications.


13.
Effective cross-agency collaboration on quality standards requires recognizing a specific factor. Identify the critical factor.

 Incompatible software platforms utilized by different departments.
 Differing legislative mandates and risk tolerances governing participating agencies.
 Distinct uniform or dress code policies of involved organizations.
 Preferred meeting times of agency directors.
 Varying physical security clearance requirements for building access.


14.
Briefing senior leadership on a critical quality failure requires a specific presentation style. Identify the appropriate style.

 Delivering concise, objective facts outlining the failure, the root cause, and immediate corrective actions.
 Providing a detailed, chronological narrative of events leading up to the failure.
 Minimizing the severity of the failure to prevent executive panic.
 Using highly technical jargon to demonstrate deep subject matter expertise.
 Blaming specific individuals by name during the introduction.


15.
Moderating a contentious meeting between engineering and quality assurance staff regarding design tolerances demands a specific facilitation technique. Identify the correct technique.

 Ending the meeting abruptly upon hearing raised voices.
 Forcing a vote to decide tolerance limits based on majority rule.
 Siding immediately with quality assurance staff to maintain departmental authority.
 Providing uninterrupted time to complaining parties before discussing technical details.
 Acknowledging opposing perspectives, maintaining focus on data-driven arguments, and guiding the group toward consensus.


16.
Explaining complex statistical sampling methods to non-technical production floor personnel involves a specific approach. Identify the most effective approach.

 Reading directly from the official statistical sampling manual.
 Utilizing simple analogies and practical examples directly related to daily operational tasks.
 Presenting simplified mathematical formulas on a whiteboard.
 Refusing to explain and simply demanding compliance with the sampling plan.
 Speaking louder and slower while using standard statistical terminology.


17.
Responding to unexpected, hostile questions during a public stakeholder hearing requires a specific behavior. Identify the required behavior.

 Deflecting the question to a subject matter expert sitting in the audience.
 Leaving the podium and terminating the hearing.
 Matching the hostile tone of the questioner to assert dominance.
 Maintaining a calm demeanor, acknowledging the concern, and providing a factual, measured response.
 Refusing to answer and moving immediately to the next question.


18.
Drafting a standard operating procedure for a new inspection technique requires a specific structural element. Identify the necessary structural element.

 Multiple cross-references to external manuals lacking context inline.
 Vague guidelines allowing individual interpretation of the inspection steps.
 Clear, sequential steps using active verbs and unambiguous technical terminology.
 Lengthy paragraphs explaining the theoretical background of the inspection technique.
 Conversational tone to ensure document approachability for new hires.


19.
Preparing an executive summary for a comprehensive annual quality report necessitates focusing on specific information. Identify the required information focus.

 High-level trend analyses, significant systemic risks, and major strategic recommendations.
 List containing minor non-conformances identified during the calendar year.
 Detailed biographies of quality assurance staff members.
 Full reproduction of raw data tables found in the report appendix.
 Colorful charts lacking corresponding explanatory text.


20.
Issuing a formal corrective action request to a struggling supplier must include specific details. Identify the mandatory details.

 Compliments regarding past performance to soften the negative feedback.
 Threats of immediate contract termination in the opening paragraph.
 General statement of dissatisfaction with recent deliveries.
 Suggestions for specific personnel changes at the supplier facility.
 Precise description of the non-conformance, the violated standard, and a required timeline for resolution.


21.
Revising an outdated quality manual for clarity and modern compliance involves a specific editing process. Identify the optimal editing process.

 Adding an addendum to the end of the manual rather than altering the original text.
 Changing fonts and formatting to make the document appear updated.
 Deleting chapters at random to reduce the overall page count.
 Removing obsolete references, simplifying complex sentences, and aligning terminology with current industry standards.
 Replacing original text with templates downloaded from an internet search.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙