Position Title
Cultural Anthropologist - FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
AK-1537-WRST26-13028067-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring is defined to include the following counties: Chistochina, Chitina, Copper Center, Eureka Roadhouse, Gakona, Gakona Junction, Glennallen, Gulkana, Kenny Lake, Lower & Upper Tonsina, Mendeltna, Nelchina, Tazlina, Tolsona, Tonsina.

If you select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Cultural Anthropologist, GS 0190-09 position at Wrangell-St. Elias National Park. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. Your responses must be supported by and documented in your resume. You must submit a copy of your transcripts that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information described below, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration.


Basic Requirements: This occupation has a specific individual occupational requirement. To support this requirement, you must submit a copy of your transcripts.


1.
From the description below, select the best response that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Cultural Anthropologist, GS-0190 position.
 I have a degree in an appropriate field of anthropology. You must include transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major, or a combination of courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in an appropriate field of anthropology, or related course work, plus appropriate experience or additional education. You must include transcripts and number of hours worked per week in your resume.
 I have four years of appropriate experience in anthropology performing research, museum work, or similar professional-level work. You must include number of hours worked per week in your resume.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the statements above.


Minimum Qualifications


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Cultural Anthropologist, GS 0190-09 work at the GS-09 level or equivalent.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience may include: collecting field data contributing to the basic natural or cultural resources inventory of a park or a monitoring program to assess status and trends of resources condition; investigating cultural sites, natural resources and historic scenes to identify, protect or interpret them properly; assist in reporting on impact and effectiveness of management actions that affect natural and cultural resources and administering subsistence activities and data collection under the mandates of Title 8 and the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA).
 I have at least 2 full years of progressively higher graduate level education or master’s or equivalent graduate degree related to the occupation in education, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the position. You must include transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above. To combine education and experience, first take your graduate education, divide your number of semester hours in excess of 18 semester hours by 18 or the number your school uses to represent one year of full-time graduate academic study. Then take the number of months of full-time experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. You must include transcripts and hours worked per week in your resume.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙