Position Title
Geographer
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-27-13079662 DHA
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
.
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No
2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No
3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of up to 10 % of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10 % of the time?
 Yes
 No
MQ Only RH 199160 CE Geographer MP
.
Thank you for your interest in a Geographer (GIS Data Manager) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Geographer at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in geography; or related physical or social science such as geology, meteorology, economics, statistics, sociology, anthropology, political science, history, cartography, computer science, urban studies, or planning which includes at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in geography, or a related field with at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Geographer (GIS Data Manager) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience with planning, coordinating and developing digital GIS (Geographic Information Systems) schemas, layers and databases, developing digital data and map products, planning and developing spatial databases.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
