Position Title
Heavy Mobile Equipment Repairer Leader
Agency
U.S. Army Reserve Command
Announcement Number
SDDE-26-13044115-DHA-R Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 22, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Condition of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires membership in the US Army Reserve (USAR). If you are not willing or are ineligible to join the USAR, please do not apply to this announcement. If selected, you MUST be or become a member of the Selected USAR. Generally, retired military service members are not eligible for Selected USAR membership. Are you currently a member of the Selected USAR and are willing to maintain membership or are you willing to obtain and maintain membership in the Selected USAR?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Heavy Mobile Equipment Repairer Leader position with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Heavy Mobile Equipment Repairer Leader duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to lead others when situations are the most difficult and complex in nature. I am skilled in passing on instructions, demonstrating work methods, working with other workers and setting the pace for non-supervisory repair work, checking work in progress and when finished for compliance with supervisors instructions, work orders, and established shop procedures, policies, and other directives, interpreting work instructions and assisting lower graded repairers or trainees in the more difficult or complex tasks, and providing information to the supervisor on status and progress of work. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to lead others when situations are within the full range of difficulty. I am skilled in passing on instructions, demonstrating work methods, working with other workers and setting the pace for non-supervisory repair work, work orders, and established shop procedures, policies, and other directives, interpreting work instructions and assisting lower graded repairers or trainees in the more difficult or complex tasks. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to lead others when situations are of a common nature. I am skilled in passing on instructions, demonstrating work methods, and working with other workers. I can follow established shop procedures, policies, and other directives. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to lead others when situations are of a simple nature. I have received training on conducting repairs and the makeup and operation of the various individual systems regarding heavy mobile equipment; and utilizing and maintaining basic hand tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙