Position Title
Medical Support Assistant (Patient Care Service)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12929578-26-GG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements Candidates must meet the minimum requirements to be considered for a Medical Support Assistant GS-679, position.


1.
Please select the option that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement.
 I possess at least six months experience of clerical, office, customer service, or other administrative work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position
 I possess a High School Diploma, a General Education Development (GED) equivalency certificate, a proficiency certificate from the State or territorial-level Board or Department of Education. (Corresponding documentation must be submitted in support of selecting this option. i.e. Certificate or Transcripts)
 I do not possess the experience or education described above.


Grade Requirement In ADDITION to the Basic Requirements candidates must also meet the grade requirements for the grade level they wish to be considered for.


2.
Please select the option that best describes how you meet the GS-4 grade requirement.
 I possess one year of experience in clerical, office, customer service, or other administrative work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position
 I possess one year of education above high school. (Transcripts must be submitted when selecting this option)
 I do not possess the experience or education as described above.


3.
Please select the option that best describes how you meet the GS-5 grade requirement.
 I possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-4 grade level.
 I possess two years of education above high school. (Transcripts must be submitted when selecting this option)
 I do not possess the experience or education as described above.


Knowledge Skills, and Abilities: Candidates must also demonstrate all KSAs to be found qualified at the GS-4 grade level.


4.
Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for the GS-4 grade level?
Ability to meet, communicate, and interact with individuals from varying backgrounds and other health care team members in a courteous and helpful manner in order to facilitate medical care for patients.
Ability to use, and navigate between, various types of office automation equipment and software (i.e. computer systems, web based scheduling programs; insurance collection system; scanning software, multiple line phone systems; electronic faxing programs) to support patient care.
Knowledge of basic medical terminology to assist in the provision of care to patients.
Skill in recording patient messages and understanding physician requests pertaining to follow-up medical care in internal or external clinics.
 Yes, I possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for the GS-4 grade level.
 No, I do not possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for the GS-4 grade level.


Knowledge Skills, and Abilities: Candidates must also demonstrate all KSAs to be found qualified at the GS-5 grade level.


5.
Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for the GS-5 grade level?
Ability to operate computerized programs and systems in order to enter, modify, and retrieve sensitive medical and patient identifying] information (PII) into or from electronic health records, scheduling systems, and/or reports.
Advanced knowledge of medical terminology specific to understand medical diagnosis and procedures sufficient to communicate clinical staff instructions to patients.
Ability to schedule medical appointments in a clinical setting.
Ability to work independently in the accomplishment of a wide variety of duties performing patient support work.
Ability to communicate effectively and professionally in person, electronically, and/or by telephone, with internal and external customers.
Skill in customer service with the ability to identify customer concerns, and refer to the appropriate staff, as necessary, to ensure a satisfactory resolution.
 Yes, I possess the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as described for the GS-5 grade level.
 No, I do not possess the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as described for the GS-5 grade level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


English Language Proficiency Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated and responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information and responses that I have provided to be truthful.
 No, I do not certify that the information or response that I have provided to be truthful and I understand that I will no longer be considered for this vacancy.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information:
Experience: Starting and ending dates of experience (month and year), hours worked per week and salary information.
Education: If selected, official transcript will be required and must be uploaded with your application.
To ensure you are properly rated, you must make certain the required experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) listed in the qualification selection of this announcement is addressed in detail in your resume.
Please be aware that responses to this assessment  will be verified against information provided in your application.
Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications.
To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.
We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙