Position Title
Assistant Director, Criminal Investigations
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
FAIS-26-IMP-12997727 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently an employee of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)?
You may need to submit documents to prove this claim. Please review the Required Documents section of the job announcement to find the documents you need to submit.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I have successfully completed FLETC's Criminal Investigator Training Program or a program that is equivalent to FLETC's Criminal Investigator Training Program.
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered "Yes" to the previous question, enter the name of the training program and the organization that provided it in the text field. If you answered "No", enter "Not applicable."


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I have at least 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the next lower band level, equivalent to the Band (Criminal Investigator Band II, GS-14, PE-IIB, PA-II, PT-III, or MS-I) grade level in the Federal service, which has equipped the me with the skills and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience planning and conducting complex criminal investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of potential fraud, waste and abuse and government corruption; deciphering evidence and information that reconstructs events, sequences and time elements; and advising, assisting and collaborating with internal and external stakeholders within Federal, State and/or local law enforcement.
 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Please select the response that best demonstrates your experience in leading, planning, and conducting investigations of fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


5.
Select the choice that best describes your experience and knowledge of investigative principles and techniques to include; the rules of evidence and criminal procedure; the application of precedent federal court decisions concerning admissibility of evidence; constitutional rights; and related issues.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


6.
Select from the list below each of the investigative techniques you have successfully employed in the course of your official duties.
 A. Subject and witness interviews / Interrogations.
 B. Contract and grant reviews and analysis.
 C. Surveillance (Physical and Technical).
 D. Database and record checks.
 E. Data mining and link analysis.
 F. Comparison of known documents to questioned documents
 G. Taking sworn statements.
 H. Undercover operation.
 I. None of the Above.


7.
Select the one choice below that best describes your level of experience researching, analyzing, and evaluating information, data and evidence in an investigation.
 A. I have frequently been consulted by others for expertise and assistance in researching, analyzing, or evaluating information and data.
 B. I have independently researched, analyzed, and evaluated data as a regular part of my job.
 C. I have assisted in conducting research and analysis.
 D. I have had education or training in research and analysis, but have not performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience in research and analysis.


8.
With which of the following entities have you developed successful working relationships to facilitate your investigations of fraud, waste, and abuse?
 A. Agency management officials.
 B. Agency heads and political appointees.
 C. Agency auditors and analysts.
 D. Other agency employees.
 E. Other federal law enforcement agencies.
 F. Prosecutors (civil and criminal).
 G. Other state and federal law enforcement agencies.
 H. Agency General Counsel.
 I. General public.
 J. U.S. congressional members or staffers.
 K. Private industry.
 L. None of the above.


9.
Identify the types of teams and/or integrated team environments comprising investigative, audit, analyst, and/or attorney staff-both internal and external-in which you have participated and demonstrated the ability to conduct, manage, and/or supervise specialized investigations and/or projects.
 I have led and/or supervised multi-organizational/multi-agency and cross-functional teams, working groups, or task forces comprising agents, auditors, analysts, and attorneys to achieve investigative results.
 I have participated in multi-organization/multi-agency working groups and task forces comprising agents, auditors, analysts, and/or attorneys.
 I have participated in agency task forces and working groups comprising agents, auditors, analysts, and/or attorneys.
 None of the above.


10.
Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience establishing liaison with congressional officials, law enforcement, and the Office of Inspector General (OIG) community?
 I am highly skilled at establishing liaison with congressional officials, law enforcement, and the OIG community, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance.
 I have routinely and independently established liaison with congressional officials, law enforcement, and the OIG community as a regular part of my job.
 I have some minimal experience independently establishing liaison with law enforcement and the OIG community. [
 I have established liaison with law enforcement and the OIG community with guidance from a supervisor
 I do not possess the experience/training described above.


11.
Select the statement that best describes your experience working with a federal Office of Inspector General (OIG).
 I have no experience working with an OIG
 I have worked with OIG agents but have not worked in an OIG
 I have one to four years of experience working for an OIG
 I have five to nine years of experience working for an OIG
 I have ten or more years of experience working for an OIG


12.
Select one answer/choice that best describes your highest level of knowledge, skill, and ability preparing investigative reports and documenting your investigative activities, information, and evidence in support of investigative findings.
 I have extensive experience independently preparing highly sensitive investigative reports, legal briefs, and correspondence that are accurate, logical, and well organized, and that set forth factual findings, analyses, and recommendations in accordance with established policies and procedures to include the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency Quality and Standards for Investigations, and Department of Justice and/or Attorney General guidelines.
 I have experience preparing highly sensitive investigative reports that are accurate, logical, and well-organized, and that set forth factual findings, analyses, and recommendations in accordance with established agency policies and procedures, to include the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency Quality Standards for Investigations, and Department of Justice and/or Attorney General guidelines.
 I have experience preparing investigative reports that are accurate, logical, and well-organized, and that fully document my investigative activities and set forth factual findings.
 I have experience preparing investigative reports with supervisory guidance that set forth factual findings.
 I do not possess the experience/training described above.


13.
Please identify your ability to provide quality control assurance that assignment products (interviews, activities, and reports) meet guidelines and professional and policy standards including the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Investigations and Department of Justice (DoJ) and/or Attorney General (AG) guidelines.
 I frequently and independently conducted investigative activities and authored reports that met CIGIE, DoJ, and AG guidelines.
 Under supervision, I conducted investigative activities and authored reports that met CIGIE, DoJ, and AG guidelines.
 I participated in investigations that met agency policies and procedures.
 I have no experience in this area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


14.
Select the statement that best describes your experience using investigative tools and techniques to conduct complex fraud, waste, and abuse investigations.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


15.
From the list of oral communication situations, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work.
 A. Demonstrated experience providing executive level briefings to high ranking internal and external stakeholders (government, congressional, private sector) relating to facts and circumstances of highly complex investigations that sometimes require sensitivity, tact, extensive experience and leadership.
 B. Testified in judicial and/or administrative proceedings.
 C. Conducted fraud awareness or other outreach briefings to agency employees and/or the general public.
 D. Presented cases to prosecuting entities.
 E. None of the above.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


16.
Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing investigation summaries for criminal or civil prosecution referrals.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


17.
Select the statement that best describes your experience determining the investigative merit of suspected violations of criminal laws, civil laws, or agency policy.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


18.
Who have you interacted with while investigating fraud, waste, and abuse? (Select all that apply)
 A. Management officials
 B. Agency heads
 C. External federal law enforcement agencies
 D. State, city, or local law enforcement agencies
 E. Prosecutors (civil or criminal)
 F. General Counsels
 G. External Offices of Inspector General
 H. Private industry
 I. None of the above


19.
What written products have you created to pursue criminal investigations involving alleged fraud, waste, abuse, or corruption? (Select all that apply)
 A. Investigative reports
 B. Criminal complaint affidavits
 C. Search warrant affidavits
 D. Memoranda of Interview
 E. Memoranda of Investigative Activity
 F. Applications for Inspector General (IG) subpoenas
 G. None of the above


20.
What quality assurance guidelines have you applied in conducting your investigative activities? (Select all that apply)

 A. Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency Quality Standards for Investigations
 B. Department of Justice or Attorney General guidelines
 C. Agency investigative manuals
 D. Other agency policies and procedures
 E. None of the above


21.
Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to communicate information and significant updates with all levels of managers, staff members, support staff, and others within your organization (Select all that apply)
 A. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 B. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or managers within an organization.
 C. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of their duties and provided recommendations for improvement.
 D. I have drafted memoranda or conducted briefings for staff and managers regarding procedural, policy, and program updates that affect internal and external operations within an organization.
 E. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher-level managers or internal or external organizations or agencies.
 F. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal or external organizations or agencies.
 G. None of the above


22.
What investigative techniques have you used? (Select all that apply)
 A. Interviews or interrogations
 B. Record checks
 C. Comparison of known documents to questioned documents
 D. Link analysis program to establish relationships and graphic representations of those relationships
 E. Sworn statements
 F. Miranda warnings
 G. Garrity warnings
 H. Kalkines warnings
 I. Search warrants
 J. Anonymous complainants
 K. None of the above


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


23.
Select the statement that best describes your experience leading investigative task forces.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


24.
When making difficult decisions, I primarily focus on making decisions that are:  
 Swift
 Firm
 Informed
 Popular
 Practical


25.
When I realize I made a mistake, my typical first step is to:
 Admit my mistake
 Determine how much of the mistake I had control over.
 Wait to see if anyone notices the mistake.
 Determine how much of the mistake will effect me or others
 Try to identify a remedy for the mistake.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


26.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information in and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or terminating my employment me after I begin work and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙