Position Title
Recreation Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12838904 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 24, 2025 to Sunday, December 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires irregular working hours, to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when the need arises. Are you willing and able to meet this work schedule requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires extended periods of sitting and standing, and the ability to perform moderately strenuous physical labor, lifting objects weighing up to 45 pounds unassisted and heavier items with assistance.  Exercise demonstrations and/or prolonged hours may be required.  Are you willing and able to meet these physical demands?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response applicable to you.
 I have six (6) months or more of general experience AND six (6) months or more of specialized experience. General experience is any type of work that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work of the position, or experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the occupation. Specialized experience includes performing aid or assistance in the organization and administration of recreation activities, such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities.
 I have successful completion of two (2) years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation (e.g., basic psychology, group dynamics, physical education, sports, etc.). If claiming education in lieu of experience transcripts must be included.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and/or experience as described above.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How much working experience do you have in customer service to include greeting customers, answering phones and providing information?
 I have more than two (2) years of documented experience in customer service as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of documented experience in customer service as described above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of documented experience in customer service as described above.
 I have less than six (6) months of documented experience in customer service as described above.
 I do not have any experience in customer service as described above.


3.
How much experience do you have with cash handling and/or operating a cash register?
 I have more than two (2) years of documented experience as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of documented experience as described above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of documented experience as described above.
 I have less than six (6) months of documented experience as described above.
 I do not have any experience with above.


4.
How much experience do you have with organizing, planning and administering fitness activities?
 I have more than two (2) years of documented experience with above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of documented experience with above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of documented experience with above.
 I have less than six (6) months of documented experience with above.
 I do not have any experience with above.


5.
How much experience do you have with cleaning procedures, such as sweeping, mopping, dusting, cleaning bathrooms, straightening areas with equipment and/or accessories, etc.?
 I have more than two (2) years of experience with above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience with above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of experience with above.
 I have less than six (6) months of experience with above.
 I do not have any experience with above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) and First Aid certification

OR

Able to obtain these trainings/certifications within 30 days of being placed in the position.
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you currently have the following Certifications: Automated External Defibrillator Certification, Blood-borne Pathogen Certification, Navy Basic Fitness Certification?

OR

Are you willing to obtain the listed certifications within 90 days of being placed in the position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙