Position Title
FUL-Biological Science Technician (Wildlife)
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYO-27-13084736-FUL-JP
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 15, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised? You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No
2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location(s). Location(s): Winona, Minnesota If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No
Bio Science Tech Min Quals
.
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
1.
Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience as it relates to the basic requirements for this position.
 I have successfully completed the following experience that is identified on my resume. The specialized experience required for some positions in this series is normally work performed in a controlled environment. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Research activity or control program work; Nursery work that required the growing and maintenance of plants in a controlled environment; Work comparable to that with a large dairy farm where production records, animal environment, and sanitary conditions were kept in accordance with modern dairy practice.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2.
Choose one answer below which best describes how your experience and/or education would qualify you for the Biological Science Technician (Wildlife) position at the GS-7 grade level.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-6 grade level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience may include: basic and applied habitat restoration techniques of wetland habitats for the benefit of various species; experience in the practices/techniques and terminology related to wildlife management and habitats; capturing, handling and monitoring a variety of species; knowledge and experience working with laws and regulations, as well as policies pertaining to the protection of a variety of federally listed species and their habitat; using computer technology to maintain and retrieve information from automated data systems, and statistical software programs in order to develop reports; working with and leading volunteers in a natural resource environment.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours or equivalent) in a discipline that is directly related to this position, such as biology or wildlife management. NOTE: Transcripts are required.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described above and graduate-level education that is directly related to the position, that when prorated, combine to meet the qualification requirements of this position. For example, 6 months of specialized experience and half a year of directly related graduate level education. You must include transcripts.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described above.
3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
