Position Title
MWR Deployed Forces Fleet Recreation Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12959867 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the MWR Deployed Forces Support Fleet Recreation Specialist position. Failure to respond to all questions will result in an ineligible rating.?Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0188 Recreation Specialist series? If using education to qualify, transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application. 
 I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation.
 I have at least 2 (two) years of appropriate experience that demonstrate the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have CPR, First Aid, AED, Bloodborne Pathogen and/or Navy Basic Fitness certification(s)? It is recommended to provide any of the unexpired certifications you already have with your application.  
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with operating military fitness, fleet recreation or recreational facilities and programs.
 I have five or more years of experience with the above.
 I have four to five years of experience with the above.
 I have three to four years of experience with the above.
 I have one to three years of experience with the above.
 I have less than one year of experience with the above


4.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with and knowledge of exercise equipment suitable for shipboard fitness spaces.
 I have five or more years of experience with the above.
 I have four to five years of experience with the above.
 I have three to four years of experience with the above.
 I have one to three years of experience with the above.
 I have less than one year of experience with the above.


5.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with purchasing and inventory control.
 I have five or more years of experience with the above.
 I have four to five years of experience with the above.
 I have three to four years of experience with the above.
 I have one to three years of experience with the above.
 I have less than one year of experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙