Position Title
PRODUCTION CONTROLLER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12967459-AR-26-080 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E5 - E9 or WO1?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E5 - E9 or WO1.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training which indicates the candidate can reason in quantitative terms, communicate orally and in writing in a clear and concise manner, understanding the terminology and data pertaining to repair operations and process characteristics of the production activity.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience education or training scheduling workflow in more than one area and responsible for coordinating products or materials from support activities. Experience in performing or supervising journeyman level work in a production facility. Experience preparing job or work orders; scheduling various phases of projects into the production facility; following up to see if work is progressing as planned and arranging for adjustments in materials, machine processes, and work sequencing allowing for changes. Experience with current automation support programs to input data, provide status of equipment, and monitor job order status, monitor work priorities, requisition repair parts, track repair parts status, etc.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience establishing, implementing, and monitoring maintenance plans and schedules for a variety of complex equipment (e.g., combat vehicles, tactical equipment, or communications systems).


4.
Please detail your experience managing reportable equipment (such as MTO&E or TDA Line Item Numbers) and prioritizing resources to support unit readiness, training, and mobilization requirements.


5.
Describe your background in conducting short- and long-term planning for maintenance operations, including the programming of workload, shop space, and personnel.


6.
Explain your experience managing, funding, and executing maintenance supply budgets (such as Class 9 / CL IX accounts) to maximize operational readiness.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙