Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Direct Hire)
Agency
Transportation Security Administration
Announcement Number
HQ-ES-HC-TM-12832260-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 25, 2025 to Dec 08, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Springfield, VA
 B. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Referred applicants may be shared with other locations within TSA. Do you authorize the sharing of your name and application materials with other locations? If you respond "No", your name and application materials may only be shared for the position and locations on this announcement.
 Yes
 No


How did you hear about this opportunity?
1.
Please let us know how you heard about this opportunity.
Airport ad
Billboard ad
Career center
Digital banner ad
Email
Facebook
Flyer
Gas station TV ad
Google search
Gym TV ad
Instagram
Job board (e.g. Indeed, ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, etc.)
Job Fair
LinkedIn
Local TV ad
Magazine ad
News
Newspaper ad
Other streaming or online video ad
Professional organization (e.g. LULAC, NOBLE, SHRM, etc.)
Public transit ad
Radio ad
Referral
Shopping mall ad
Streaming radio ad
Text message
TSA postcard
Twitter
USAJOBS Search or E-mail
VA for VETs, TAP or other military/veteran program
YouTube video ad
None of the Above


Suitability and Conditions of Employment
1.
Please indicate whether or not you have been convicted* of any of the offenses listed within the past 10 years. (Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position.)

*You have a conviction if you plead no contest (nolo contendere), plead guilty, were found guilty, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, to any of the listed disqualifying offenses. The only exceptions are if your guilty plea or conviction has been reversed on appeal, your conviction has been expunged, or you have been pardoned.
Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violations.
Interference with air navigation.
Improper transportation of hazardous material.
Aircraft piracy.
Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants.
Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight.
Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft.
Conveying false information and threats.
Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States.
Lighting violation involving transporting controlled substances. Essentially, this means that if you have been convicted of transporting illegal drugs in a plane without activating the navigation or anti-collision lights you are disqualified.
Unlawful entry into an aircraft area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements.
Destruction of an aircraft or either a domestic or international aircraft facility. It is a federal crime to use any device, substance or weapon, to intentionally perform an act of violence against any person at an airport or to destroy or seriously damage the facilities of such an airport.
Murder.
Assault with intent to murder.
Espionage.
Sedition (inciting insurrection against lawful authority).
Kidnapping or hostage taking.
Treason.
Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.
Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.
Extortion.
Armed or felony armed robbery.
Distribution of, or intent to distribute a controlled substance.
Felony arson.
Felony involving a threat.
Felony involving willful destruction of property.
Felony involving importation or manufacture of a controlled substance.
Felony involving burglary.
Felony involving theft.
Felony involving dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation.
Felony involving possession or distribution of stolen property.
Felony involving aggravated assault.
Felony involving bribery.
Felony involving illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year, or any other crime classified as a felony that the Under Secretary determines indicates a propensity for placing contraband aboard an aircraft in return for money.
Violence at international airports.
Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed above.
Interference with security screening personnel.
 Yes, I have been convicted* of one or more of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
 No, I have not been convicted* of any of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.


All the information you provide may be verified by a review of the work experience and/or education as shown on your application form, by checking references and through other means, such as the interview process. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.


2.
Does the TSA employ any of your relatives?
 Yes
 No


Please respond whether or not you have been separated (e.g., terminated, removed, or resigned while a proposed termination or removal was pending) from TSA for any of the following reasons within the last three years.

Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position


3.
Were you separated due to unacceptable performance?
 Yes
 No


4.
Were you separated due to misconduct?
 Yes
 No


5.
Were you separated due to receiving a negative suitability determination from the Personnel Security Division?
 Yes
 No


6.
Did you resign after receiving a proposed removal letter?
 Yes
 No


Resume Requirements
1.

I understand that my Resume must include the following or I may be found ineligible for consideration:

Narrative description of duties for each job entry with start and end dates, including month and year (i.e. 8/2023 - 8/2024 or 8/2024 - present) for work experience.
Number of hours worked in a position (i.e., full-time or part-time) for each job entry. If part-time, state the total number of hours worked per week.
Performance level for federal civilian positions which include pay plan and grade/band (e.g. SV-G or GS-11) for each job entry.
Utilizing the USAJOBS Resume Builder and completing all available fields is strongly encouraged.
 Yes, I understand my resume must include the above information and I wish to continue with my application.
 I no longer want to continue with my application.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the SV-I or GS-13 Pay Band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector. Specialized experience is defined as experience that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position to be filled. Specialized experience is defined as:
Researching, interpreting, applying, and advising others on Federal laws, regulations, policies, and guidelines regarding recruitment and staffing; and
Briefing management and communicating complex human resources issues in a clear, concise, and logical manner to a variety of audiences at various levels of the organization; and
Experience conducting special projects or comprehensive reviews/studies to evaluate and resolve operational issues; and
Operating in a high-volume hiring environment performing at least 5 of the following functions:
recruitment strategy;
recruitment ad development and placement;
recruitment event planning and support;
posting job opportunity announcements;
conducting eligibility and qualification reviews;
issuing selection certificates;
updating candidate or new hire records in various electronic systems (e.g., USA Staffing, National Background Investigation Services, DHSiD, Integrated Security Management System);
reviewing candidate or new hire forms (e.g., SF-86, OF-306, SF-61) for accuracy and completeness;
extending tentative and final job offers;
responding to candidate inquiries;
resolving candidate issues;
coordinating candidate assessment activities;
supporting onboarding procedures;
preparing reports or interpreting data related to recruitment and staffing activities;
understanding HR Information System platforms, functionalities or data reporting tools;
resolving candidate data integrity issues for recruitment and staffing functions; or
analyzing candidate workflow data or conducting studies to improve hiring program efficiency, compliance or service delivery.
 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment with the TSA is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙