Position Title
Fish and Wildlife Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CAXB-26-13056802-DE-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
College Graduate: 

Are you a college graduate who has, within the previous two years*, completed a qualifying baccalaureate or graduate degree from an institution of higher education?
*Note: Service members unable to apply within two years of obtaining your degree due to a uniformed service obligation of at least 4 years, may apply within two years of their release or discharge from uniformed service. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a service member, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying outside the two years, documentation must show the duration and dates of service that precluded you from applying due to a military service obligation.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a College Graduate?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Fairbanks, AK
 C. Tok, AK


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


Merit Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Fish and Wildlife Biologist position with Fish & Wildlife Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Basic Education


1.
Please select the letter that best describes how you meet the education requirements for GS-0401 position.
 I possess a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that is equivalent to a major in a biological science plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not have the education or experience (or combination) as described above.


Minimum Qualifications


2.
From the choices below please choose the response that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to the minimum qualifications required for this position at the GS-05 grade level.
 I possess a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I possess a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not have the education or experience (or combination) as described above.


3.
From the choices below please choose the response that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to the minimum qualifications required for this position at the GS-07 grade level.
 I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility equivalent to grade GS-5 in the Federal service. Experience must demonstrate meeting the following: (1) assisting in reviewing biological portions of environmental assessment/impact statements or comprehensive resource planning reports to evaluate environmental consequences of proposed actions; (2) researching potential impacts of proposed programs or actions to determine the effects of those programs or actions on threatened and endangered species; (3) assisting with preparing portions of draft biological opinions/assessments as required under Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) for the supervisor's review and/or discussion; (4) maintaining and updating files on permits issued for activities associated with endangered, threatened, proposed, and candidate species and their habitats; (5) gathering, organizing, and interpreting biological, ecological, pathological, public use, or other pertinent information to ensure management plans are current; and/or (6) implementing federal environmental laws (i.e., Endangered Species Act, specifically Sections 7 and 10; Clean Water Act; Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act; National Environmental Policy Act), regulations, and policies involving natural resource issues.
 I possess at least 1 full year of graduate education from an accredited college or university in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I possess Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.). S.A.A. is based on (1) Class Standing, (2) Grade-Point Average, or (3) Honor Society Membership. (1) Class Standing: Upper one-third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision based on completed courses. (2) Grade-Point Average: A grade point average of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B or better) as recorded on the official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; -or- (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible4.0 0 (B+ or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum. (3) Election to Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society: Applicants may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies. Freshman scholastic honor societies cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position.
 I possess a combination of education and experience described in A and B, which together equals 100% of the requirements.
 I do not possess the education, experience, or combination thereof described in A, B, C, or D.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙