Position Title
IT Specialist (Customer Support)
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS AKRO-26-12967730-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Juneau, AK


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
ZP-2: Select the one statement that best describes your experience and/or education performing the work of an IT Specialist (Customer Support), ZP-2210-2 or equivalent grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-1) or equivalent GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting with Information Technology (IT) support as part of a team or communicating with customers to assist in with resolving IT issues. -AND- If qualifying based on experience, I have IT experience and/or training that demonstrates possession of the following four IT Competencies: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I meet the criteria for a superior academic achievement demonstrated by a bachelor’s degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks from an accredited college or university with one of the following: A grade point average (GPA) of 2.9 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study; A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. (Note: It is your responsibility to ensure your application clearly states how you meet one of these provisions. You must attach a copy of your transcripts showing completed degree and, if applicable, proof of national Scholastic Honor Society membership.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
ZP-3: Select the one statement that best describes your experience and/or education performing the work of an IT Specialist (Customer Support), ZP-2210-3 or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or equivalent GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Providing application or program support for software, hardware or systems installations, configurations or troubleshooting; and Providing customer support for Information Technology related issues. -AND- If qualifying based on experience, have IT experience and/or training that demonstrates possession of the following four IT Competencies: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks or 3 full years of progressively higher graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Assessment 2
1.
A customer contacts the help desk with an urgent hardware failure. According to standard service procedures, which of these actions is most critical for managing customer expectations?
 Guaranteeing that the hardware will be fixed within the hour regardless of the issue
 Informing the customer that hardware issues are a low priority compared to software
 Replacing the equipment immediately without documenting the failure in the system
 Communicating the anticipated timeline for resolution and any available temporary workarounds.


2.
When logging an incident into the help desk tracking system, what is the primary reason for including the specific resolution steps taken?
 To prove to management that the specialist is working efficiently
 To ensure a robust knowledge base is established for future team reference
 To prevent the customer from calling back about the same issue
 To justify the purchase of newer hardware at the end of the fiscal year


3.
What is the primary objective of monitoring the help desk phone line and ticketing system throughout the day?

 To screen calls and only answer those from senior management
 To document which users complain the most about technical issues
 To wait for a network-wide failure before taking any action
 To ensure all incidents are logged and assistance is provided in a timely manner


4.
When a user reports a complete "loss of service" on their primary workstation, which of the following should be the specialist's first priority?
 Initiating a full system reimage to ensure a clean software environment
 Determining the scope of the problem and the specific impact on the user’s mission
 Escalating the issue to the Senior Technical Specialist immediately
 Ordering replacement hardware to minimize potential downtime


5.
In the context of desktop and laptop hardware support, which task is considered a core "system maintenance" responsibility?
 Redesigning the office layout to improve wireless signal strength
 Developing the organization’s long-term cybersecurity policy
 Negotiating pricing with hardware vendors for bulk purchases
 Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting both hardware and operating systems


6.
Which of the following is a standard requirement when configuring a new laptop for an end user?
 Allowing the user to choose their own local administrator password
 Disabling all security patches to ensure the laptop runs at maximum speed
 Removing the asset barcode to make the laptop more aesthetically pleasing
 Installing the standard operating system and approved productivity software


7.
If a specialist is unable to resolve an incident after applying standard troubleshooting methods, what should they do?
 Close the ticket as "unresolved" to keep the queue moving
 Tell the customer that the problem cannot be fixed
 Keep the ticket open indefinitely until a solution is found by accident
 Direct the inquiry to the appropriate senior staff or specialized team


8.
Which of the following best describes network protocol knowledge as it applies to a desktop support role?
 Knowing how to physically repair a cut fiber optic cable
 Understanding basic settings like IP addresses and DNS to ensure connectivity
 Being able to rewrite the code for the organization's firewall
 Managing the electrical wiring for the entire building's server room


9.
While assisting a user with an email access issue, you discover the problem is a forgotten password. What is the best course of action?

 Write the user's new password on a sticky note and leave it on their desk
 Tell the user to create a new personal email account for work business
 Give the user your own administrative credentials to use temporarily
 Follow established security protocols to verify identity and reset the password


10.
A user is unable to access their web-based email from a remote location. What is the most likely area for the specialist to investigate first?
 The physical inventory status of the organization's mail server
 Network connectivity and browser-specific configuration settings
 The mechanical integrity of the user's laptop cooling fan
 The software training manuals distributed during the previous quarter


11.
A user reports that their computer is running slow when using a specific installed application. Which troubleshooting step should the specialist take first to identify the root cause?
 Wipe the hard drive and perform a clean installation of the operating system
 Check the system's Task Manager or Resource Monitor to identify CPU and memory consumption
 Tell the user to only use the application during non-peak business hours
 Order an additional 16GB of RAM before inspecting the software configuration


12.
What is the primary objective of participating in "Enterprise Collaboration" or working groups as an IT support specialist?

 To identify opportunities to improve internal IT processes and services
 To lobby for higher paygrades for the customer support team
 To reduce the number of hours the help desk is required to be open
 To delegate help desk tasks to members of other working groups


13.
When drafting software training instructions for end users, what is the most important factor to ensure the material is effective?

 Using highly technical jargon to demonstrate expertise
 Keeping the instructions as brief as possible by skipping basic steps
 Writing clear, step-by-step guidance tailored to the user's technical level
 Using only black and white text without any screenshots or visuals


14.
What is the correct procedure for "Personal Property Accountability" when a new IT asset arrives at the facility?
 Use the item for at least 30 days before reporting it to the Property Office
 Place it in the breakroom for whoever needs it first
 Affix a barcode and complete the required acquisition documentation
 Send the asset back to the vendor if it does not have a pre-installed barcode


15.
When an employee is leaving the organization, why is the "Exit Clearance" procedure critical for the IT department?

 To ensure all assigned IT property is accounted for and returned
 To interview the employee about their favorite software tools
 To give the employee a chance to buy their laptop at a discount
 To wipe the employee’s badges so they can be reused immediately


16.
To ensure that an organization's knowledge base remains a viable resource for the help desk team, how should incidents be handled?

 Incidents and their resolutions should be logged in a tracking system with detailed notes
 Only hardware-related failures should be documented to save system resources
 Technical solutions should be shared verbally during team meetings only
 Incident logs should be cleared every 30 days to maintain system speed


17.
When preparing to conduct end-user training for a newly deployed software suite, which approach is most effective according to standard support practices?
 Directing users to the manufacturer’s technical API documentation
 Providing users with a copy of the software source code for review
 Developing and distributing clear, unique training instructions and manuals
 Requiring users to troubleshoot the software independently for the first week


18.
What is the standard procedure for managing IT assets that are classified as "sensitive" or "accountable"?
 Assigning the equipment to a department without individual tracking
 Disposing of the equipment locally once it becomes obsolete
 Affixing official barcodes and completing formal acquisition documentation
 Keeping a handwritten list of items in the specialist's desk


19.
Which of the following best describes the IT specialist's responsibility during a "Property Exit Clearance" for a departing employee?
 Allowing the employee to retain "sensitive" items for remote work
 Verifying that all assigned IT property is physically accounted for and returned
 Deleting the employee’s profile from the incident management system
 Transferring the employee’s property accountability to a random coworker


20.
If a specialist discovers that a laptop assigned to a user has been damaged beyond repair, what is the required administrative action?
 Charging the user’s department for a new laptop via an informal invoice
 Repairing the device using unapproved third-party components
 Reporting the damaged property to the Property Accountability Officer for review
 Removing the barcode and discarding the device without notification


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


21.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙