Position Title
Medical Records Technician (HIT)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12898781-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Technician (MRT) Health Information Technician (HIT) position. The following are the requirements and qualifications for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) Health Information Technician (HIT) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements and qualifications apply to all VHA MRTs HIT in the GS-0675 series. MRTs HIT perform incomplete health record analysis. They review, analyze, abstract, maintain, extract, and compile information from the health record. MRTs HIT check for accuracy, completeness, and timeliness of the health record and monitor and report for regulatory compliance.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


1.
English Language Proficiency:

Medical Records Technician (MRT) Health Information Technician (HIT) must be proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education:

Experience: One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, and a general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT HIT work.

OR

Education: An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). Note: A transcript is needed to support this response.

OR

Experience/Education Combination: Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following experience and educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:
Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses.
Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. The training program may be substituted on a month for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy and physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Note: A transcript or military school transcript is needed to support this response.
Select the following response that best describes your experience and education for this position.
 I possess the experience.
 I possess the education.
 I possess a combination of experience and education.
 I am a current, permanent Veterans Affairs employee AND a Medical Records Technician (HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN) and qualify based on VHA's grandfathering provision for this position. (All persons employed in VHA as a MRT (HIT) on the effective date of this qualification standard, 12/10/2019, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. )
 None of the above statements describe my experience and/or education.


GRADE DETERMINATIONS In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-4 Entry Level Medical Records Technician (HIT): I met the basic requirements as described as above. I analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accrediting bodies; perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures; monitor, verify correct, and upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records.

Experience None beyond basic requirements.

OR

Education: 2 years above high school.


Do you possess the basic requirements or education for this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-5 Medical Records Tech (HIT): I have the following experience or education:
Experience. One year of experience comparable to the next lower level (GS 04).

OR,

A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy & physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to communicate effectively with internal and external customers.
Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in health information management positions (e.g., Microsoft Excel, electronic health records, and delinquency tracking software).Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and industry standards.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes.
Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy to fully understand the content of a health record.
Do you possess the Experience or Education AND can you demonstrate all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities in your resume?

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-6 Medical Records Tech (HIT):

Experience: Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS 05) directly related to the position being filled.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to navigate efficiently through the health record to locate needed information.
Ability to analyze health record documentation to ensure compliance with guidelines and industry standards.
Skill in investigating potential health record errors and making corrections, when appropriate.
Skill in interpreting and applying health information guidelines and using judgment to complete assignments.
Ability to follow up on incomplete health record documentation.
Do you possess the Experience AND can you demonstrate all 5 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities in your resume?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-7 Medical Records Tech (HIT): 

Experience. Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS 06) directly related to the position being filled. 

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
 
Ability to judge whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support education and research needs.
Ability to take appropriate actions if health record content is not adequate, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with individuals or groups, to facilitate compliance with established policies and regulations.
Skill in using appropriate software and computer applications to analyze and record documentation trends.
Ability to apply qualitative and/or quantitative methods for assessment and improvement of health records.
Ability to work independently and utilize problem-solving techniques in the accomplishment of work.
Do you possess the Experience AND can you demonstrate all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities in your resume?

 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a MRT HIT, on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/ registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: (1) Such employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure/certification/ registration, may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation, but will not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (2) Employees appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended, or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. (3) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials, as a condition of employment in the occupation. a. Physical Requirements. See VA Directive and Handbook 5019, Employee Occupational Health Service. b. English Language Proficiency. MRTs HIT must be proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f)


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (Be as detailed as possible.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙