Position Title
Economist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-LGY-12983462-26-DR-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION (AOC) INSTRUCTIONS: This vacancy is open ONLY to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) applicants in the local Washington DC commuting area who are eligible for priority consideration under the Career Transition Assistance program.


1.
Are you currently an former VA employee who is CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am a former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


 INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR) INSTRUCTIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.


2.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR): This position does have an IOR (Individual Occupational Requirement) that must be met in addition to the Time-in-Grade and regular Specialized Experience qualifications.  In order to qualify for this position, you must have experience listed below:

Specialized Experience IOR:
A. Degree: economics, that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.

-OR-

B. Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.

Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education to be credited towards qualifications. Provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

You must meet the Basic Requirements listed above and the Specialized Experience/Education Substitution to qualify for Economist, as described below.

Evaluation of Experience

Examples of qualifying experience include:
individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation;
supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or
teaching assignments in a college or university that included both class instruction in economics subjects and one of the following (1) personal research that produced evidence of results, (2) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (3) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.

Experience in related fields that did not involve the use and understanding of economic principles and theories may not be used as qualifying experience for these positions. Special attention on this point should be given to certain types of work that may or may not have provided professional economic experience. The following examples of work require special care in such determinations:
economic statistics;
industrial surveys;
management of individual business enterprises, including farms;
industrial planning;
writing or editorial work in economic subjects; and
financial market analysis.


 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to Individual Occupational Requirement described above.
 My experience and/ or education is not described above.


TIME-IN-GRADE (TIG) INSTRUCTIONS: As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


3.
At the GS-14 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-13 or held the GS-14 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you
 I have held a GS-14 grade (or higher)
 I have at least one year in a GS-13 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE INSTRUCTIONS: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.


4.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0110-14 Economist. 

GS-14 grade level: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-13) in the federal service. Specialized experience is work experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position.

Specialized experience for this position at the GS-14 grade level is defined as:
Conducting qualitative and quantitative economic research (e.g., statistical analysis, impact evaluations, cost-benefit analysis, etc.) to clarify legislative, regulatory, or administrative policies related to federal credit, housing finance, banking, or other industry.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT INSTRUCTIONS:  As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙