Position Title
Arborist (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SO-1544-SLBE-26-13008283-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority – Residency
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring for this vacancy is defined as 65 miles from Empire, MI

If you select yes, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform work at the Arborist (MVO/Tractor Operator) WG-5001-07 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I have and can independently, with no supervision, successfully do the following: operate 1/2 ton and 3/4-ton pickups, stake trucks, van trucks, platform trucks, bucket truck and/or dump truck which typically have an approximate GVW of not more than 32,000 pounds. Consistently operates chainsaws to fell trees with significant lean or defects. Has working knowledge of rigging tools and operations to utilize for felling trees and removing limbs over structures. Trains others on tree identification and best trimming or felling practices. Operates manlift or boom trucks to accomplish technical tree work. Operates a range of equipment including, but not limited to skid steer loaders, towable chippers, front end loaders and backhoes, farm style equipment with various attachments, ride on mowers (zero-turn and articulating deck) to complete tasks not limited to: Mowing, earth moving, clearing debris within high traffic roadways, excavating holes to rough specs, etc. Maintains tools and equipment according to manufacturer’s specifications and operating manuals.
 I have and can, with little guidance from a supervisor, successfully do the following: operate 1/2 ton and 3/4-ton pickups, stake trucks, van trucks, platform trucks, bucket truck and/or dump truck which typically have an approximate GVW of not more than 32,000 pounds. Consistently operates chainsaws to fell trees with significant lean or defects. Has knowledge of rigging tools and operations to utilize for felling trees and removing limbs over structures. Has knowledge of tree identification and best trimming or felling practices. Operates manlift or boom trucks to accomplish technical tree work. Operates a range of equipment including, but not limited to skid steer loaders, towable chippers, front end loaders and backhoes, farm style equipment with various attachments, ride on mowers (zero-turn and articulating deck) to complete tasks not limited to: Mowing, earth moving, clearing debris within high traffic roadways, excavating holes to rough specs, etc. Maintains tools and equipment according to manufacturer’s specifications and operating manuals.
 I have and can, with normal supervision, successfully do the following: operate 1/2 ton and 3/4-ton pickups, stake trucks, van trucks, platform trucks, bucket truck and/or dump truck which typically have an approximate GVW of not more than 32,000 pounds. Consistently operates chainsaws to fell trees with significant lean or defects. Has some knowledge of rigging tools and operations to utilize for felling trees and removing limbs over structures. Knowledge of tree identification and best trimming or felling practices. Has operated manlift or boom trucks to accomplish technical tree work under close supervision. Has operated a range of equipment including but not limited to skid steer loaders, towable chippers, front end loaders and backhoes, farm style equipment with various attachments, ride on mowers (zero-turn and articulating deck) to complete tasks not limited to mowing, earth moving, clearing debris within high traffic roadways, excavating holes to rough specs, etc. under close supervision. Maintains tools and equipment according to manufacturer’s specifications and operating manuals.
 Little or no experience with any duties as described.


Vehicle Operation


2.
This position requires that the incumbent possess a Driver's License. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how you meet this requirement. Read all the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I possess a Driver’s License.
 I do not possess a Driver’s License but will be able to obtain one before entrance on duty.
 I do not have a Driver's License as required above.


3.
This position operates gasoline and diesel-powered tractors up to 70 H.P. Tractors are field/farm type with towed or attached equipment such as rotary and flail mowers, augers, tillers, backhoe, or skid steer.
 I have experience operating this type of equipment.
 I do not have experience operating this type of equipment.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙