Position Title
Drill Rig Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH26 12877715 DHAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 02, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
8


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Drill Rig Operator position with the Department of the Army.We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Drill Rig Operator Helper WG-05: From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Drill Rig Operator Helper duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex assistance of heavy equipment operation. I am skilled in simple drilling techniques under supervision. I have assisted as a helper in using drilling equipment. I have the ability to repair, operate, maintain, and perform routine repairs of a wide variety of equipment. I have spent time working outside in a variety of weather conditions. I can provide safe assistance to field operations, follow directions to prepare site prior, and load proper equipment and materials for assignments. I can troubleshoot, repair, operate, and maintain small equipment and engines. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of assistance with operating heavy equipment. I have spent time working outside in a variety of weather conditions. I am skilled in troubleshooting, repair, operating, and maintain small equipment. I can follow directions to load equipment and supplies and assist with field operations. I can drive a manual transmission vehicle. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks including heavy equipment operators including working outside in a variety of weather conditions. I can perform routine maintenance on small equipment. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common assistance of heavy equipment operation. I am skilled in simple drilling techniques under supervision. I have assisted as a helper in using drilling equipment. I have the ability to repair, operate, maintain, and perform routine repairs of a wide variety of equipment. I have spent time working outside in a variety of weather conditions. I can provide safe assistance to field operations, follow directions to prepare site prior, and load proper equipment and materials for assignments. I can troubleshoot, repair, operate, and maintain small equipment and engines. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple assistance of heavy equipment operation. I am skilled in simple drilling techniques under supervision. I have assisted as a helper in using drilling equipment. I have the ability to repair, operate, maintain, and perform routine repairs of a wide variety of equipment. I have spent time working outside in a variety of weather conditions. I can provide safe assistance to field operations, follow directions to prepare site prior, and load proper equipment and materials for assignments. I can troubleshoot, repair, operate, and maintain small equipment and engines. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Drill Rig Operator WG-08: From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Drill Rig Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex assistance in operating a variety of drill rigs and employing complex drilling techniques. Develops an understanding of controlling drilling parameters such as bit pressure, rotational speed, and rate of penetration in order to maintain borehole stability during drilling. Develops abilities to formulate and adjust the properties of drilling fluids with a variety of additives to promote borehole stability as well as learns to recognize, understand, and control hydrostatic and hydrodynamic aquifer conditions. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to assist with the full range of drilling techniques on mechanically driven geotechnical drill rigs. I have experience in at least 3 of the following: assisting in core drilling operations; assists in the setting up and operation of auger, cable tool and rotary drilling equipment to obtain samples of soil, rock, etc., for field classification and/or laboratory analysis; assisting in setting up equipment such as leveling machine and setting up mast on drill rig; assembling and disassembling drill rods and core barrels using wrenches and other tools; assisting in removing samples from sample barrels; assisting in maintenance of drilling equipment by cleaning tools and equipment and oiling and greasing parts. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks including assisting with the common drilling techniques on mechanically driven geotechnical drill rigs. Under supervision, I have assisted a journeyman worker in using drilling equipment, drilling techniques and procedures to ensure proper site modification prior to drilling, proper equipment and materials are available for the job. I have the ability to repair, operate, maintain, and perform routine repairs of drill rig equipment. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common assistance for drilling techniques. Under supervision, I have assisted as a helper worker in using drilling equipment. I have the ability to repair, operate, maintain, and perform routine repairs of a wide variety of equipment. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple drilling techniques or I have received training as a helper worker in using assisting with drilling equipment. I have the ability to repair, operate, maintain, and perform routine repairs of a wide variety of equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙