Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12903997-26-CRW Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 10, 2026 to Mar 09, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Please read the Qualifications Section of the Announcement completely before applying to this announcement. Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-12. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-11 to GS-12.

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:

GS-11
Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to properly assess a wide variety of patients having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
Skill in development and writing of a] blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
 Knowledge of teaching methods and learning principles.
Ability to employ interventions, unusual motivational techniques, and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan.
Skill in recommending appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for patients within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.
Ability to plan, direct, and distribute work assignments to volunteers, assistants, interns, and/or BRSs at lower grade levels and perform assigned mentoring duties for staff, students, and interns.

GS-12
Skill to independently develop, plan, and administer complex treatment programs.
Ability to act as a subject matter expert in the blind/vision rehabilitation field and as consultant, supervisor and/or mentor in evaluating and treating patients in specialty or program areas.
Ability to coordinate, motivate, and effectively manage staff and/or committee members to include organizing work, setting priorities, and delegating tasks and responsibilities.
 Ability to disseminate appropriate information through various media as a consultant or mentor.
 Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers, and other stakeholders.
Ability to identify team group dynamics, objectively observe, and modify behaviors.
Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on a day-to-day basis, to develop short term and long range goals, and to plan for future utilization of resources

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Ensure you provide details in the provided narrative sections of this assessment.


HPTs who have successfully completed or are expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA sponsored training program may be considered based on completing the requirements listed below by the date of appointment. Please ensure you provide all supporting documentation regarding your training program and expected completion. Ensure you provide details in the provided narrative sections of this assessment.*HPTs who are on track to graduate/complete the requirements should respond as if they have met the requirements. Provide details in the narrative sections of the assessment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a past, current or upcoming Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has spent all or part of your clinical training experience at a VA facility, or are you a Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) recipient?
 Yes
 No


2.
2. Narrative: Please provide the following information regarding your HPT Clinical Training Experience: Location of VA facility and dates attended.


3.
Education: Please select the option that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for this position.
 I have a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, [or a closely] related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education. (A copy of your transcript will be required. Please submit this with your application and provide details in the narrative following this question.)
 I have a masters degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, [or a closely] related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education. (A copy of your transcript will be required. Please submit this with your application and provide details in the narrative following this question.)
 A bachelors [or masters] degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in options (a) and (b) above) and obtained a certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy. This education must have included supervised practice. (A copy of your transcript will be required. Please submit this with your application and provide details in the narrative following this question.) AND Completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the Bling Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS) GS-9 grade level. Individuals at this grade level serve as [entry level] staff BRSs. They are responsible for intake, assessment, planning for rehabilitation, intervention, and follow-up in the content specialties. They receive guidance from experienced staff members for the most complex [Veteran cases.] (Please provide details in the narrative following this question.
 Completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the BRS, GS-9 grade level; OR, Three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a doctoral degree in blind rehabilitation or a directly related field. (A copy of your transcript will be required. Please submit this with your application and provide details in the narrative following this question.)
 I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement. Please provide details in the narrative below.
 I do not meet the basic requirements for this position.


4.
Please provide the following information regarding your education, supervised practice, and/or experience. Please format your response to this narrative to match your answer in the previous question, or use the following as a guide to provide all the proper applicable information. If any section does not apply to you, please leave it blank.

Education:(1) school attended (name and location)(2) degree obtained (program, major, and level: e.g. bachelors, masters, doctoral)(3) date it was awarded (month/year)

Experience: one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the Bling Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS) GS-9 grade level *If applicable, please make sure this information corresponds with your resume and provide detailed descriptions of duties performed on your resume:(1) Position title(2) GS Grade (if applicable)(3) Employer/location(4) Full Time/Part Time (hours worked)(5) Month/year - Month/Year worked

Foreign Education: *If Applicable:(1) school attended (name and location)(2) degree obtained (program, major, and level: e.g. bachelors, masters, doctoral)(3) date it was awarded (month/year)(4) independent evaluation company(5) date evaluation completed


5.
CERTIFICATION: You must have at least one (1) of the following certifications offered by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP) to qualify for appointment at the GS-11 level and two (2) to qualify for the GS-12 level. The certification must be in active, current, full, and unrestricted status

.(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS).
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
(d) Assistive technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialist (CATIS).

Please select the response that best describes the AVCREP certifications you possess.

NOTE: If you do not submit copies of your ACVREP certification(s), you will be marked as not eligible.
 GS-11 I possess one of the AVCREP certifications listed above. (Please submit a copy and provide details in the narrative following this question.)
 GS-12 I possess two or more of the AVCREP certifications listed above. (Please submit copies and provide details in the narrative following this question.)
 I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement. Please provide details in the narrative below.
 I am not certified by AVCREP.


6.
Please provide the following information regarding your certification: active or expired, certification type, state issued, date of original issuance, date of expiration.


7.
GS-11 Experience: Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS) at the GS-11: Level are responsible for independent care. Individuals in this assignment serve as a member of or as consultants to a specialty care team, and provide in-service and clinical training programs in the content specialty or program area.
 GS-11: I meet the basic requirements of this position AND I possess at least one active, current, full, and unrestricted ACVREP certification (COMS or CVRT or CLVT or CATIS)
 I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 I do not meet the experience and certification requirements for this position.


8.
GS-12 Experience: Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS) at the GS-12 are required to meet the basic requirements and must complete a minimum of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level
 I meet the basic requirements and have at least one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of this in any of the above statements


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:

*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable). 

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/

 https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙