Position Title
Assistant Marina Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12854868 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Assistant Marina Manager, NF-1101-03 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your education/experience level.
 I have a bachelor's degree in Community Recreation, Outdoor Recreation or a related field
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience
 I have at least three years of specialized experience working at a Marina, Community Recreation, or Outdoor Recreation program
 I have none of the above.


2.
Select the answer that best represents your documented experience working at a marina or sailing center executing recreational boating activities such as watercraft operation and maintenance, water and boating safety.
 I have don't have any experience in the categories mentioned above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience working at a marina or sailing center executing recreational boating activities such as watercraft operation and maintenance, water and boating safety
 I have between 1-3 years of experience working at a marina or sailing center executing recreational boating activities such as watercraft operation and maintenance, water and boating safety
 I have 3+ years of experience working at a marina or sailing center executing recreational boating activities such as watercraft operation and maintenance, water and boating safety


3.
Select the answer that best represents your documented experience in a lead and/or supervisory position.
 I don't have any experience in a supervisory/lead role.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in a supervisory/lead role.
 I have between 1-3 years of experience in a supervisory/lead role.
 I have 3+ years of experience in a supervisory/lead role.


4.
Select the answer that best represents your experience with inventory, credit card processing and/or budget management.
 I don't have any experience with inventory, credit card processing and/or budget management
 I have less than 1 year of experience with inventory, credit card processing and/or budget management
 I have between 1-3 years of experience with inventory, credit card processing and/or budget management
 I have 3+ years of experience with inventory, credit card processing and/or budget management


5.
Select the answer that best describes your ability to safely operate a power boat and render assistance to boaters in distress(Please attached certificates/license to receive credit).
 I possess a national license/certification and 3+ years of active boating experience documented in my resume
 I possess a national license/certification and 1-3 years of active boating experience documented in my resume
 I possess a national license/certification and less than 1 year of active boating experience documented in my resume
 I possess a national boating license/certification but I have no active boating experience documented in my resume
 I do not have a national boating license/certification but I have less than 1 year of active boating experience documented in my resume
 I do not have a boating license/certification or any active boating experience documented in my resume
 I do not have a national boating license/certification but I have between than 1-3 years of active boating experience documented in my resume
 I do not have a national boating license/certification but I have 3+ years of active boating experience documented in my resume


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙