Position Title
Physician (Regular Ft)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12801647-25-CLY Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2025 to Sep 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
In conjunction with accepting a tentative offer, selected candidates must submit a written statement to the HR Office point of contact specifying their vaccination status within two business days of receiving a tentative offer. Using one of the applicable statements below please identify your COVID Vaccination status.
 I am fully vaccinated and must provide proof if selected for this position. I understand if I select this answer and fail to provide proof of vaccination when requested and at New Employee Orientation, I may not receive a final offer or be appointed.
 I am not vaccinated but intend to receive the vaccine or have received my first dose and am scheduled for my second dose. I can provide proof of my status or of future appointment(s).
 I would like to request a legal exception (i.e., medical or religious). Since exceptions must be adjudicated favorably before HR Office staff can issue a final offer for some positions, I may receive a final offer while my request for medical or religious exception is being adjudicated or after a final decision depending on the type of position I apply for.


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


1.
Citizenship. Be a Citizen of the United States. (Noncitizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with [38 U.S.C. ? 7407(a)). Please indicate your citizenship status.
 U.S. Citizen
 Permanent Resident Alien
 H-1B Temporary Worker Visa
 O-1 Temporary Worker Visa
 TN Temporary Worker Visa
 J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency. Physicians appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7402(d) and 7407(d). Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education. Degree of Doctor of Medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are: (1) Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, or (2) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted. (3) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (1) or (2) above, facility officials must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed by the applicant. [If the applicant does not claim an ECFMG certificate, facility officials must still confirm that the medical school meets (or met) ECFMG eligibility requirements for the year the candidate graduated. Do you possess a degree of doctor medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine?

The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:
(a) Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted.
(b) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) for the year in which the degree was granted.
(c) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (a) or (b) above, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) certificate is required.
 Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted.
 Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) for the year in which the degree was granted.
 For foreign medical graduates not covered in (a) or (b) above, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) certificate is required.
 None of the above applies to me.


4.
Residency Training. Physicians must have completed residency training, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. (NOTE: VA physicians involved in academic training programs may be required to be board certified for faculty status.) Approved residencies are:
Those approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), OR
Those approved by the American Osteopathic Association (AOA), OR
Other residencies (non-US residency training programs followed by a minimum of five years of verified practice in the United States), which the local Medical Staff Executive Committee deems to have provided the applicant with appropriate professional training and believes has exposed the physician to an appropriate range of patient care experiences.
NOTE: Residents currently enrolled in ACGME/AOA accredited residency training programs and who would otherwise meet the basic requirements for appointment are eligible to be appointed as "Physician Resident Providers" (PRPs). PRPs must be fully licensed physicians (i.e., not a training license) and may only be appointed on an intermittent or fee-basis. PRPs are not considered independent practitioners and will not be privileged; rather, they are to have a "scope of practice" that allows them to perform certain restricted duties under supervision. Additionally, surgery residents in gap years may also be appointed as PRPs.Have you completed, or are you currently completing, residency training, or fellowship training if applicable, or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification?

Approved residencies, and fellowships if applicable, are:
(1) Those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA), in the list published for the year the residency, or fellowship if applicable, was completed or
(2) Other residencies (non-US residency training programs followed by a minimum of five years of verified practice in the United States), which the local Medical Staff Executive Committee deems to have provided the applicant with appropriate professional training and believes has exposed the physician to an appropriate range of patient care experiences.
 Those approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME)
 Those approved by the American Osteopathic Association (AOA)
 Other residencies (non-US residency training programs followed by a minimum of five years of verified practice in the United States), which the local Medical Staff Executive Committee deems to have provided the applicant with appropriate professional training and believes has exposed the physician to an appropriate range of patient care experiences.
 None of the above applies to me.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Licensure and Registration. Physicians must possess a current, full and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The physician must maintain current registration in the state of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure. Do you currently hold, or will you hold, a full and unrestricted license to practice Medicine in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


6.
Provide the following information regarding your licensure. If you are not licensed yet please indicate the expected date and state or territory.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙