Position Title
Food Service Worker
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-12990850-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Food Service Worker, WG-7408-04, position with the Department of Defense. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Food Service Worker WG-7408-04 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Food Service Worker duties. I am skilled in verifying meal cards by checking for expiration dates and validity of card; counting the revenue collected after each completed meal service, and completing the appropriate forms that document the cash collected, change funds, and discrepancies; operating, maintaining, and restocking dining room beverage islands; preparing sandwiches, complex salads, cold platters, and a variety of beverages; collecting payments using a computerized/electronic point-of-sale (POS) and/or cash register system; receiving, storing, and securing all supplies and food items as required; breaking down and cleaning assigned areas when the meal is finished, and returning food to the main kitchen.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Food Service Worker duties. I am skilled at verifying meal cards by checking for expiration dates and validity of card; counting the revenue collected after each completed meal service, and completing the appropriate forms that document cash collected, change funds, and discrepancies; operating, maintaining, and restocking dining room beverage islands; preparing sandwiches, complex salads, cold platters, and a variety of beverages; receiving, storing, and securing all supplies and food items as required; breaking down and cleaning assigned areas when the meal is finished, and returning food to the main kitchen. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Food Service Worker duties. I can verify meal cards by checking for expiration dates and validity of card; operating, maintaining, and restocking dining room beverage islands; preparing sandwiches, complex salads, cold platters, and a variety of beverages; receiving, storing, and securing all supplies and food items as required; breaking down and cleaning assigned areas when the meal is finished, and returning food to the main kitchen. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Food Service Worker duties or I have received training in verifying meal cards by checking for expiration dates and validity of card; operating, maintaining and restocking dining room beverage islands; and breaking down and cleaning assigned areas when the meal is finished, and returning food to the main kitchen.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙