Position Title
Student Trainee (Information Technology)
Agency
Joint Activities
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-13007491-CES-R Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
You must be currently enrolled and seeking a degree or certificate in a qualifying educational institution on a half- to full-time basis. Are you currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Student Trainee (Information Technology) position with the Department of Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates you ability to perform the work of a Student Trainee (Information Technology) at the GG-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of post-high school study. (Two years of full-time academic study is defined as 60 semester hours, 90 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university), and have attached a copy of my transcripts. To support educational claims, you must provide college transcripts. Diplomas will not be accepted in place of transcripts.
 I have a combination of experience and education which totals 100%, and have attached a copy of my transcripts. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 60. Add the two percentages. To support educational claims, you must provide college transcripts. Diplomas will not be accepted in place of transcripts.
 I DO NOT possess the experience NOR education as described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙