Position Title
Seasonal Biological Science Technician (Wildlife) FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1549-SR-26-12954698-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Yosemite National Park, California is defined as 50 miles from Madera, Tuolumne, Mariposa, and Mono counties. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


3.
To qualify based on education, you must submit a legible copy of transcripts from an accredited institution with your name, school name, credit hours, course level, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. Transcripts do not need to be official, but if you are selected for this position and you used your education to qualify, you must provide official transcripts before you begin work.

If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet qualification requirements, you must show that your education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement; and I have provided this information with my application package if applicable. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.
 No, I do not certify and understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.


4.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


5.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Backcountry Travel


1.
This position requires working in extreme weather conditions, able to hike, backpack up to 16 miles per day for several days at a time, carry heavy loads weighing at least one-third the person's body weight, camp in wilderness for extended periods, and demonstrate experience working in remote wilderness settings while performing wildlife studies
It is a Selective Factor (Screen Out). To be considered for this position, you must provide the detailed description as required above.

 Yes, I have the experience as stated in my resume (or other supporting documents) demonstrating my ability backpack up to 16 miles per day for several days at a time, carry heavy loads weighing at least one-third the person's body weight, camp in wilderness for extended periods, and demonstrate experience working in remote wilderness settings while performing wildlife studies.
 No, I am not able to perform all of the duties described above.


2.
From the description below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-05, position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: assist in conducting established natural resource management projects; following instructions and standardized procedures for natural resources field work; collecting and organizing field data; performing routine and recurring testing of collected biological samples; following established quality control protocols and safety procedures for resource management projects; assisting higher level specialists or technicians in the preparation of portions of reports, plans, or guidelines related to resource management projects. Duties are supportive of professional specialists in resource management; relevant to research, conservation, and management of natural resources such but not limited to wildlife (land or aquatic) monitoring or control; field studies on plant or forest ecology, inventorying, monitoring, and/or control of invasive plants, or making other field observations on the state of natural resource conditions.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience as listed in A above; however, I possess a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited educational institution (120 semester hour or 180 quarter hours) which included at least 24 semester hours of scientific or technical courses, such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics. At least 6 semester hours of courses must be directly related to this position. Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields.
 I have NOT completed one year of specialized experience as defined in A above or possess a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree as described in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example: For example, I have 6 months of specialized experience (50% of the experience requirements for this position and grade level) combined with 2 years of undergraduate education, as outlined above (50% of the education required to qualify), directly related to this position. Examples of education directly related to the position are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted. For experience, you must include hours per week worked.
 I do not have specialized experience or education as described in the statements listed above.


3.
From the description below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-06, position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: following instructions and standardized procedures; Identifying, collecting and organizing wildlife/field data; ensuring quality control of data collected; performing routine and recurring testing of collected samples; recording data collected and providing preliminary assessment and classification of the information; assisting in the preparation of resource management reports, plans, and guidelines. Must include hours per week worked.
 I do not have the 1 year of specialized experience as defined in A above; however, I have completed 1 full year of graduate education in an accredited educational institution (18 semester hours or 27 quarter hours) directly related to this position. Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience as described in A above or the 1 year of graduate education as indicated in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example, I have 6 months of specialized experience (50% of the experience requirements for this position and grade level) combined with 6 months (9 semester hours) of graduate education, as outlined above (50% of the education required to qualify), directly related to this position. Examples of education directly related to the position are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted. For experience, you must include hours per week worked.
 I do not have specialized experience or education as described in the statements listed above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-07, position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: ability to execute established natural resource management projects by independently planning and carrying out steps using established techniques to resolve problems. For example, planning field projects, independently choosing from among several possible courses of action at different stages of the project (e.g., selects site locations, sampling techniques, appropriate equipment, logistics, etc.). Duties are supportive of professional specialists in resource management; relevant to research, conservation and management of natural resources such as but not limited to wildlife (land or aquatic) monitoring or control; field studies on plant or forest ecology, inventorying, monitoring, and/or control of invasive plants, leadership and mentoring tasks or making other field observations on the state of natural resource conditions.
 I do not have the 1 year of specialized experience as defined in A above; however, I have 1 full year of graduate education in an accredited educational institution (18 semester hours or 27 quarter hours) directly related to this position. Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience as described in A above or the 1 year of graduate education as indicated in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example, I have 6 months of specialized experience (50% of the experience requirements for this position and grade level) combined with 6 months (9 semester hours) of graduate education, as outlined above (50% of the education required to qualify), directly related to this position. Examples of education directly related to the position are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASENOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I do not have specialized experience or education as described in the statements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙