Position Title
Heavy Mobile Equipment Repairer
Agency
U.S. Army Reserve Command
Announcement Number
SDDE-26-12842736-DHA-S Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 28, 2025 to Thursday, February 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Elwood, IL
 B. Fort Sheridan, IL
 C. Fort Wayne, IN
 D. South Bend, IN
 E. Olathe, KS
 F. Augusta, MI
 G. Bay City, MI
 H. Grand Rapids, MI
 I. Livonia, MI
 J. Southfield, MI
 K. Traverse City, MI
 L. Milan, OH
 M. Monclova, OH


COE
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires membership in the US Army Reserve (USAR). If you are not willing or are ineligible to join the USAR, please do not apply to this announcement. If selected, you MUST be or become a member of the Selected USAR. Generally, retired military service members are not eligible for Selected USAR membership. Are you currently a member of the Selected USAR and are willing to maintain membership or are you willing to obtain and maintain membership in the Selected USAR?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Heavy Mobile Equipment Repairer WG-5803-09 position with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Heavy Mobile Equipment Repairer duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance, troubleshooting, modification, and repairs to heavy mobile equipment. I am skilled in major systems, components and parts repairs; interpreting manuals and diagrams to determine the best repair method, and conducting various operational tests to perform final inspection. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance, troubleshooting, modification, and repairs to heavy mobile equipment. I am skilled in removing, adjusting or replacing defective or worn parts and components; a basic understanding of mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic repairs applying to heavy mobile equipment; and conducting various operational tests to perform final inspection. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance, troubleshooting, and repairs to heavy mobile equipment. I can perform preventive maintenance checks and services; repair, replace, install, or make adjustments to mobile equipment components and parts; and conducting various operational tests to perform final inspection. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance and repairs to heavy mobile equipment. I have received training on interpreting parts lists for repairs and the makeup and operation of the various individual systems regarding heavy mobile equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙