Position Title
Environmental Services Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12898788-26-AO Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your answers are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of your knowledge or skills as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please select only one letter for each item.


1.
(Screen-Out) Reliability and Dependability: From the descriptions listed below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform reliably and dependably as a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician, based on your past work and/or school performance. Please select only one answer.
In making your response, consider that this job includes such tasks as cleaning hospital patients' rooms, removing soiled linen and potentially contaminated items, cleaning and sanitizing restrooms, vacuuming and mopping floors, and emptying trash cans.
 I have obtained a high school diploma/GED, completed a lengthy training program, performed substantial volunteer work, or have other life experience (e.g., armed forces) that demonstrates my ability to perform the work of a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician dependably. I have never had an unexcused absence from school or work. I have received recognition and/or positive performance evaluations for my work and/or attendance, or I have been selected for special job(s) because I am reliable.
 I am able to provide continuous and dependable service performing work of a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician. My past performance in school, in the community, armed forces, and/or part-time jobs has been above average. I have performed above average on school or work projects that were assigned to me, and have had very few unexcused absences from school or work.
 My past performance in school, in the community, armed forces, and/or part-time jobs has been average, and I have the potential to perform work of a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician dependably. I am generally reliable and responsible, but have occasionally had unexcused absences from school or work.
 I have not held steady employment or had problems at school because I have had trouble in the past with arriving on time or problems with attendance.



***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

 

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

 

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:

 

· Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.

· Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

 

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

 

Some helpful tips:

*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

o Job title

o Grade Level (for federal positions)
 

o Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)

o Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)

o Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

 

*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

 

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

 

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙