Position Title
Recreation Assistance (Lifeguard)-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Department of the Air Force - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
AFMC-018904-12904941-JDJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a RECREATION ASSISTANT (LIFEGUARD), GS-0189-04. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of RECREATION ASSISTANT (LIFEGUARD), GS-0189-04. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.

 I have at least six months of general experience (this experience is described as (l) any type of work that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work of the position, or (2) experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the occupation) AND six months of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-03) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc.) and is described in detail in my resume. Specialized experience is experience gained while performing work that included (1) group leader, counselor, or similar work in public and private recreation programs for adults or children such as summer camps, local playgrounds, YWCA and YMCA clubs, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, urban community centers, or resort recreational activities; (2) teacher's aide in elementary school recreation or physical education program, with emphasis on development of general recreational skills and abilities; (3) aide or assistant assignments in recreation while on active military service; (4) aide or assistant in the organization and administration of recreation activities, such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities; (5) summer aide in a State or national park, with duties related to the recreational activities of visitors to campsites, trails, picnic areas, nature and raft centers, and boating and fishing areas (e.g., demonstrating camping techniques and park safety, conducting nature tours, and overseeing farm animal areas provided for children) (6) sales or stock clerk in a recreation supplies and equipment shop; (7) aide or assistant in the issuance of authorized property, and in the maintenance of inventory control and accountability for such property in a recreation facility; or (8) aide or assistant in a hotel or resort recreation service, with duties such as setting up areas for games, tournaments, and other organized group recreational activities.
 I have successfully completed two full years of education above high school that included at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation (e.g., basic psychology, group dynamics, physical education, arts and crafts, etc.). NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed, qualifying education and experience. Specialized experience directly related to the work of the position may be used to meet the requirements of this position. Education in excess of 1 year above high school with course(s) related to the occupation may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-04 level. NOTE: You must submit copies of your unofficial transcripts with your application if using education as a substitution of experience.
 I do not have the education/experience as described in statements A, B, or C above.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all my answers to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙