Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist - Fitness Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12764677 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2025 to Aug 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist NF 0188-04 position at the Fitness Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Please select the following as it relates to your educational and/or professional experience:

*Related field includes Kinesiology, Sports Management, and Business Management.
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + 3+ years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.)
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + 1-2 years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.)
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization. Some professional experience.
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization. No professional experience.
 No four-year degree, but 3+ years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.) and professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization.
 No four-year degree, but 1-2 years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.) and professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization.
 Less than 1 year of experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.)
 No four-year degree, specialized experience or professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you currently possess the following certification?
CPR, First Aid, and AED certification
In order to be consider, certification must be submitted with application. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have knowledge of general business principles for finances (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds?
 I have knowledge of general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 I have knowledge of general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management), but not of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 I do not have knowledge of general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 I do not have knowledge of both general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) or knowledge of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.


4.
What is your experience level in planning and executing a comprehensive fitness program that includes a variety of activities that meets the needs of the participating community?
 5+ years of experience in planning and executing fitness programming.
 3-4 years of experience in planning and executing fitness programming.
 1-2 year of experience in planning and executing fitness programming.
 Less than or no experience in planning and executing fitness programming.


5.
Which of the following BEST describes your level of knowledge regarding exercise science, strength conditioning, nutrition, weight loss/control, cardiovascular endurance, exercise requirements, and projected results?
 No knowledge in the principles of physical fitness programs.
 Basic - Fundamental concepts and can recommend basic exercises and general dietary guidelines.
 Advanced - Principles to design fitness programs and adjust exercise requirements based on individual goals.
 Expert - Possess a comprehensive and nuanced understanding and can develop personalized plans based on detailed assessments and predict outcomes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙