Position Title
Space Services Specialist
Agency
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for DC - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
OA-26-12922491-DEU-DJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


You must select one, but may select more than one, eligibility option in order to receive consideration under competitive delegated examining.


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


9.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Click the checkbox of the following statements that apply to you. Check all that apply. Your responses to the questions should be supported by experience on your resume' or you may not be considered for the position.


1.
Please select the responses that best demonstrates your specialized experience or education in relation to the qualifications for a GS-09 level Space Services Specialist.
 A. To be eligible at the GS-09 level, you must have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level. Specialized experience must demonstrate performing the following type of work and/or tasks: Assisting with preparing job orders, work specifications, or other paperwork to obtain materials, labor and or funding for complex products where the work may involve numerous skilled trades, a variety of general purpose and specialized tools, materials, and equipment. Assist with Property Management Tasks related to physical inventories, mail and delivery involving acquisition and excess agency property. Assist with planning and executing moves within an agency.
 B. SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: The experience requirement for the GS-9 level may be met by two (2) full academic years of graduate level education or completion of all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or completion of all requirements for an LL.B. or J.D. degree; in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as: Business Administration, Public Administration, Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Facilities Management, Real Estate, or Property Management. If you would like to use your education to qualify for this position, you must provide unofficial transcripts.
 C. COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: Equivalent combinations of successfully completed education and experience may be used to meet the experience requirements. If you would like to use your education to qualify for this position, you must provide unofficial transcripts.
 D. I do not have the education or experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Certification of information is correct.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙