Position Title
Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13030081M-CFN-1515-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:
BASIC REQUIREMENTS GS-5 AND (All GRADES): in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.

Evaluation of Education:

The primary requirement of operations research work is competence in the rigorous methods of scientific inquiry and analysis rather than in the subject matter of the problem. Therefore, applicants should have sufficient knowledge of applied mathematics to understand and use the fundamental concepts and techniques of operations research methods of analysis. In addition, some positions may require knowledge of a specific subject area.

Courses acceptable for qualifying for operations research positions may have been taken in departments other than Operations Research, e.g., Engineering (usually Industrial Engineering), Science, Economics, Mathematics, Statistics, or Management Science.

The following are illustrative of acceptable courses: optimization; mathematical modeling; queueing theory; engineering; physics (except descriptive or survey courses); econometrics; psychometrics; biometrics; experimental psychology; physical chemistry; industrial process analysis; managerial economics; computer science; measurement for management; mathematical models in social phenomena; and courses that involved application of operations research techniques and methodologies to problems of management, marketing, systems design, and other specialized fields; or other comparable quantitative analysis courses for which college-level mathematics or statistics is a prerequisite. Courses in theory of probability and statistics are highly desirable, but are not specified as minimum educational requirements because to do so would possibly exclude some applicants who would otherwise be well qualified.



SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14: In addition to the basic requirements, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience with operations research project assignments that required a wide range of experience in mathematical/statistical reasoning requirements and techniques pertinent to the position to be filled. This experience is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant conducted operations research using well-established and innovative methods for identifying the probable causes of cost/workload variances and procedures for resolving variances and selected and applied mathematics, economics, econometrics and/or statistics appropriate to solving operations research problems, such as the development of computerized mathematical resource allocation models (e.g. simulation),regression models, econometric projections or workload forecasting models.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS GS-5 AND (All GRADES): in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.

Evaluation of Education:
The primary requirement of operations research work is competence in the rigorous methods of scientific inquiry and analysis rather than in the subject matter of the problem. Therefore, applicants should have sufficient knowledge of applied mathematics to understand and use the fundamental concepts and techniques of operations research methods of analysis. In addition, some positions may require knowledge of a specific subject area.


Courses acceptable for qualifying for operations research positions may have been taken in departments other than Operations Research, e.g., Engineering (usually Industrial Engineering), Science, Economics, Mathematics, Statistics, or Management Science.


The following are illustrative of acceptable courses: optimization; mathematical modeling; queueing theory; engineering; physics (except descriptive or survey courses); econometrics; psychometrics; biometrics; experimental psychology; physical chemistry; industrial process analysis; managerial economics; computer science; measurement for management; mathematical models in social phenomena; and courses that involved application of operations research techniques and methodologies to problems of management, marketing, systems design, and other specialized fields; or other comparable quantitative analysis courses for which college-level mathematics or statistics is a prerequisite. Courses in theory of probability and statistics are highly desirable, but are not specified as minimum educational requirements because to do so would possibly exclude some applicants who would otherwise be well qualified.


Which of the following is true about your education?

 I have a bachelor’s or higher degree in operations research from an accredited college or university.
 I have at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics and at least 3 of the 24 semester hours are in calculus.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above.
 None of the above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14:
In addition to the basic requirements, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience with operations research project assignments that required a wide range of experience in mathematical/statistical reasoning requirements and techniques pertinent to the position to be filled. This experience is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant conducted operations research using well-established and innovative methods for identifying the probable causes of cost/workload variances and procedures for resolving variances and selected and applied mathematics, economics, econometrics and/or statistics appropriate to solving operations research problems, such as the development of computerized mathematical resource allocation models (e.g. simulation),regression models, econometric projections or workload forecasting models.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


3.
Which of the following activities have you led or been primarily responsible for completing on a corporate or government data gathering and analysis research project?
 A. Researching plan development.
 B. Identifying variables of interest and formulating detailed data requests.
 C. Creating data extracts.
 D. Quality reviewing of data obtained for analysis (such as ensuring completeness, validating data range values, validating data format, missing data analysis).
 E. Analyzing of data using descriptive techniques (such as frequency counts, mean, standard deviation and cross tabs).
 F. Analyzing of data using analytical techniques (such as Multivariate Analysis, Bayesian Methods, Cluster Models, Neural Net, C&R Tree, C5.0).
 G. Interpretating of data analysis results.
 H. Preparing data tables, charts, and narrative to communicate the research effort, results obtained, and conclusions.
 I. None of the above.


4.
Do you have experience independently carrying out or leading corporate or government research projects?

 Yes
 No


5.
Which of the following analytical techniques have you used in a corporate or government work setting where you were required to run the analysis and provide an interpretation of the results?

 A. Multivariate Analysis
 B. Bayesian Methods
 C. Cluster Models
 D. Developing Predictive Models
 E. Root Cause Analysis
 F. Gap Analysis
 G. Trend Analysis
 H. Benchmarking studies
 I. None of the above.


6.
Which of the following have you used in a work environment?

 A. SAS or SPSS to address Operations Research problems.
 B. Microsoft Excel to analyze and identify trends in the data (e.g., regression analysis, macros).
 C. Microsoft PowerPoint to present your findings.
 D. Microsoft Access to capture and manipulate large data sets.
 E. None of the above.


7.
Which of the following describe your experience with business process improvement?
 A. I have had overall responsibility for business improvement strategies for a division or organization.
 B. I developed or managed the implementation of a business improvement strategy and program within an organization.
 C. I assisted with the coordination of essential stakeholders in developing business improvement strategies.
 D. I assessed and/or assisted with the effectiveness of business improvement programs through data-driven decisions and root cause analysis.
 E. I led a business improvement project or team that specifically set out to reengineer a process, improve a product, or provide new services.
 F. I participated in the development, management or implementation of a business process improvement.
 G. I was a member of a focus group to identify requirements to support business process improvement.
 H. I assisted or developed data analysis methods for evaluating the effectiveness of business improvements.
 I. None of the above.


8.
Do you have experience participating as a team member in carrying out corporate or government research projects?
 Yes
 No


9.
Which of the following describes your contribution to the workplace?
 A. Developed methods to improve efficiency to share with workgroup or team.
 B. Assisted in the development of procedures that were adopted as Best Practices.
 C. Served on special projects.
 D. Led and/or served a team or workgroup within my program area or Business Unit/Department.
 E. Led and/or served a team or workgroup composed of members from other program areas or Business Units/Departments.
 F. Served on and coordinated the activities of a cross-functional team to resolve a company/service-wide issue.
 G. None of the above


10.
Select the response(s) that describe your experience analyzing data sets.
 A. Compiled descriptive statistics on data sets using Excel or possibly SPSS, SAS, or some other statistical analysis software package.
 B. Performed in-depth statistical analysis including linear regression analysis, cluster analysis, or some other similar analysis using Excel, SPSS, SAS, STATA, or some other statistical software package.
 C. Interpreted and then presented the results to peers and/or managers.
 D. Tested and then validated the results of statistical models.
 E. None of the Above.


11.
Select the response that describes your highest level of working with databases and Excel.
 I have used excel or databases to manipulate data (sort, filter, calculate, etc.).
 I have used spreadsheets and/or databases where I’ve created items such as pivot tables, conditional formatting and linking.
 I created spreadsheets and/or databases where I’ve created such items as pivot tables, conditional formatting and linking but also that interact with other databases or spreadsheets. I have programmed excel or databases for items like tools with buttons or drop-down menus programmed in visual basic allowing users increased functionality.
 I created, and taught others, spreadsheets and/or databases where I’ve created such items as pivot tables, conditional formatting and linking but also that interact with other databases or spreadsheets. I have programmed excel or databases for items like tools with buttons or drop-down menus programmed in visual basic allowing users increased functionality.
 None of the Above


12.
Select the response(s) that describe the analysis you have completed on a data set.
 A. My analysis answered a very specific question posed by management. I completed the analysis necessary to answer the question and provided the results to the person requesting it.
 B. I’ve included in my responses a clear description of the limits of my analysis and suggestions for follow-up analysis.
 C. My analysis answered a general question posed by management. I used my judgment and understanding of the data set to refine the question and/or anticipate additional important questions.
 D. I have performed analysis on data sets in instances where management did not provide clear direction. I used my judgment and creativity to anticipate the questions and concerns that management would likely have regarding the data set. I relied on my analytical skills to answer those questions and concerns.
 E. None of the Above.


13.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience in using econometrics, statistics, and/or forecasting to solve Operations Research problems related to achieving business results?

 A. Published articles and/or guidelines on the application of these techniques toward the achievement of business needs and I applied these techniques to address Operations Research issues.
 B. Applied more than one of these techniques or associated or similar techniques to address Operations Research issues.
 C. Used one of these or similar techniques to address Operations Research issues.
 D. None of the above.


14.
Which of the following describe your experience?
 A. Identified roadblocks and resources required to complete a project/program task.
 B. Managed multiple competing deadlines on various programs and tasks.
 C. Created schedules and corresponding deliverable dates to complete a project/program task.
 D. Interviewed stakeholders to define requirements.
 E. Developed alternative solutions either alone or within my workgroup.
 F. None of the above.


15.
Which of the following tasks have you completed when interacting with your customers?
 A. Identified and verified detailed requirements with customer(s).
 B. Discussed technical matters and identified possible challenges with customer(s).
 C. Discussed approaches to address requirements with customer(s).
 D. Ensured compliance with policies and procedures.
 E. Reviewed customer’s documentation and provided feedback.
 F. Referred difficult or uncooperative customers to a supervisor or manager.
 G. Dealt with difficult or uncooperative customers or had difficult or uncooperative customers referred to me.
 H. None of the above.


16.
Which of the following verbal communication methods have you used to provide customer service?
 A. Authored and presented briefings to upper management.
 B. Authored presented briefings to cross-organizational team(s).
 C. Facilitated meetings or conference calls that included formal agendas and meeting notes or minutes.
 D. Worked with vendors, for example, to clarify discrepancies, gather information, negotiate, or resolve issues.
 E. Represented your business unit at a cross-organizational meeting or conference call.
 F. Briefed your team on technical matters at management’s request.
 G. None of the above.


17.
What is your highest level of experience preparing written documentation (such as white papers, reports and/or draft articles for publication)?
 Prepared written documentation for immediate supervisor.
 Prepared written documentation for upper management or Executives.
 Prepared written documentation for external audience (e.g., Congress, Treasury, IRS oversight board) and trained others to do this task.
 None of the above.


18.
Which of the following documents have you written?
 A. White papers, reports and/or draft articles for publication
 B. Statements of Work (SOW)
 C. Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
 D. Desk Procedures/Job Aids
 E. Inter-organizational documents (such as Service Level Agreement, Memorandum of Understanding, Memorandum of Agreement)
 F. Training materials
 G. Request for Proposals (RFP)/Request for Quotations (RFQ)/Request for Information (RFI)
 H. Strategic Plan
 I. Concept of Operations
 J. None of the above.


19.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙