Position Title
Pipefitter
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
HN-13000530-26-AG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following question based on your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering, remember that your answer is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of your knowledge or skills as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify your response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Pipefitter without more than normal supervision. This includes, but is not limited to: Incumbent has knowledge of high-pressure piping system, medical gas (vacuum, oxygen, air), valves, steam traps, pressure gauge, and fire sprinkler system, domestic water, purify water treatment, etc. Minor electrical knowledge for installation of electronic fixture control. Incumbent understands the concept of fluid and thermo-dynamic such flow, pressure, circulation, and heat. Incumbent must have the knowledge of work procedures and processes, test procedures, and inspection requirements applicable to piping material and structure. Incumbent must apply skills in using test equipment and a wide variety of tools, measuring devices, equipment, and machinery of the trade. This includes demonstrating skills by interpreting work orders, technical data, and other specifications to assure compliance with work requirements and documentation of same. Incumbent must have the ability use memory, good judgment, and ingenuity to ensure safe work practices and maintain operations in support of the hospital. The position requires alertness and concentrated attention in planning and laying out work daily. Incumbent applies computer skill, Microsoft Office tool (Word, excel, outlook, share point), internet, VA specific work order system, VA fiscal and procurement system, and miscellaneous computers software to perform administrative tasks such as: work order report and tracking, procurement, information research, and written communication to management or customer, and editing standard operating procedures and procurement. Incumbent must be knowledgeable of The Joint Commission standards related to Environmental of Care and Life Safety Standard, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Infection Control standards, VHA Master Construction Specification, Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC), and other VA Directives related to Engineering Section-Plumbing-Pipefitting operations.
This is a screen-out element. Failure to meet a minimum level will result in an ineligible rating. Select only ONE letter.

 I have vocational training or I have completed an apprenticeship.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Pipefitter under close supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Pipefitter under normal supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Pipefitter independently under limited supervision.
 I have experience as a Pipefitter or I am consulted by other trade workers in difficult situations because of my expertise in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙