Position Title
Food & Beverage Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-13011936 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with us. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Please select the answer that best represents your education/experience?
 I have more than three years of working experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have a four-year college degree in Hospitality, Culinary Arts, or Business Administration AND two (2) years of experience in the food and beverage/hospitality service industry
 I have a two-year college degree in a related field AND four (4) years of experience in the food and beverage/hospitality service industry.
 I do not have any of the working experience/education mentioned above.


2.
Select the answer that best represents your documented experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I have more than three years of experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I have between one and three years of supervisory experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I have less than one year of experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I do not have any experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.


3.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have in a Food & Beverage operation?
 I have more than three years of supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have between one and three years of supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have less than one year of supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I do not have any supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.


4.
Select the answer that best represents your documented experience in employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I have more than three years of working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I have between one and three years of working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I have less than one year of working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I do not have any working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.


5.
How many years of experience do you have conducting payroll and personnel actions?
 I have more than three years of experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.
 I have between one and three years of experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.
 I have less than one year of experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.
 I do not have any experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.


6.
From the options below, please select the one that best describes your experience developing administrative directives, instructions, and procedures for social and recreational activities. This experience includes conducting audits to identify program deficiencies, determining the impact of service changes on the community, and coordinating work schedules with other organizational activities.
 I do not have this experience.
 I have less than 1 year of this experience.
 I have 1 to 3 years of this experience.
 I have 3 to 5 years of this experience.
 I have 5 or more years of this experience.


7.
From the options below, please select the one that best describes your experience developing administrative directives, instructions, and procedures for social and recreational activities. This experience includes conducting audits to identify program deficiencies, determining the impact of service changes on the community, and coordinating work schedules with other organizational activities.
 I do not have this experience.
 I have less than 1 year of this experience.
 I have 1 to 3 years of this experience.
 I have 3 to 5 years of this experience.
 I have 5 or more years of this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙