Position Title
ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-12987351-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Electronics Technician position with the US Army Corps of Engineers. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 level which includes utilizing electronic theories and the ability to apply the theories with guidance from higher graded technicians and or supervisors, skills in assisting with creating and modifying control system code, operating, troubleshooting, repairing electronic systems and components, and electronic security systems. Assisting in determining methods and techniques required to accomplish tasks and solving complex electronic issues.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.

Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙