Position Title
FFSP Victim Advocate and Educator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
27-13088310
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 23, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
FAP Victim Advocate and Educator
.
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a FAP Victim Advocate and Educator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1.
Select the one statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic requirement for a position in the Social Science Series, 0101.
 I have a 4-year degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (Must submit transcript).
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Must submit transcript).
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (This must be demonstrated in your resume).
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2.
Do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines (Social work, Psychology, Marriage, Family, and Child Counseling, or Counseling or Behavioral Science)? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position. And Two (2) years of progressively responsible experience in a family and children's services public agency or family and children's services community organization, 1 year of which is in prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse. And Two (2) years of progressively responsible experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault?
 Yes
 No
3.
This question will be used to determine your specialized experience. Do you possess at least three years of specialized experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to adult and child victims of domestic abuse?
 Yes
 No
