Position Title
INSPECTIONS SPECIALIST (SUPERINTENDENT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-13027504-AF-26-207 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 171st Air Refueling Wing
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 171st Air Refueling Wing (This includes 258th ATCS, 146 Weather Flight, 146 ARS, and 147 ARS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you an Enlisted member in the grade of E7 currently serving in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience serving as the focal point for interpreting, developing, and implementing Air Force inspection policy and wing-level long-range strategic plans? Provides direction and oversight of internal and external inspections, audits, evaluations, reviews, exercises; and, analyzes results to determine unit effectiveness and efficiency. Ensures operational, contingency, and mobilization plans adhere to policy and directs the effective use of wing resources. Supervises, plans, and schedules work in a manner that promotes a smooth flow and even distribution. Balances workload and provides advice, guidance, and direction on a wide range of policy, investigative, inspection/exercise, strategic planning, and administrative issues. Structures assignments to create effective and economical positions. Assesses and revises policies and procedures as needed to find ways to improve quality, timeliness, and work efficiencies. The organizational location of this position is in the Air National Guard Office of the Wing Inspector General.
 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 36 months of experience in planning for and executing inspector general programs and using software data systems. Experienced in the procedures to inspect and report on the state of discipline program efficiency and effectiveness, and readiness of military and civilian forces. Experiences involved work as the primary inspector general advisor with responsibilities to plan, direct, and manage inspector general programs. Experienced in conducting investigations and inspections to ensure compliance with agency policies, practices, and regulations.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative who is employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you ever been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙