Position Title
Management & Program Analyst (Managerial Cost Accounting/Decision Support System)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13052108-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bay Pines, FL
 B. Gainesville, FL
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Orlando, FL
 E. Tampa, FL
 F. West Palm Beach, FL
 G. San Juan, PR
 H. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Please select the appropriate response(s) regarding your referral eligibility:
 A. Promotion Eligible
 B. Change to Lower Grade Eligible
 C. Reassignment Eligible
 D. Re-promotion Eligible (previously held grade for at least one year)
 E. Interchange Agreement Eligible (I am in the Excepted Service)
 F. I am a Federal Wage Service (WG/WL/WS) employee
 G. I am not a current Federal Employee
 H. Unsure or this does not apply to me


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This announcement is open to current permanent Station 485 Managerial Cost Accounting (MCA) Department Employees only and CTAP eligible


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT FOR GS-12. In addition to meeting the time-in-grade restriction, applicants must also have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) that has equipped the applicant with the competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. This type of experience would include: - Conducting a variety of studies, analyzing findings, and making recommendations regarding continuing or beginning new medical services, purchasing new technology, or significantly altering directorate structures to accomplish organizational missions; including advanced analytics in program productivity, modeling, and process workflow impacting patient centered health care. - Independently producing analytical cost accounting and documents for management information utilizing the Decision Support System (DSS) relational database and related software; and solving difficult and complex problems in the cost accounting of medical procedures. - Developing individual programs, reports, and facilitating user interface and access to computer systems with knowledge and experience of data processing documentation procedures, standard data elements and codes, customary fact-finding approaches, and structured analysis and design methodologies. - Communicating effectively and respectfully by considering customer needs and the best way to deliver information, translating technical concepts into layman's terms, and working with staff at all levels of the organization.


1.
Do you possess the above specialized experience for the GS-12 grade level?

 Yes, I have the level of specialized experience listed above and it is fully demonstrated in the work history details within my resume.
 No, I do not have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described above. I do not qualify for this position at the GS-12 grade level.


SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR. In addition to the Time-In-Grade restriction and the Specialized Experience Requirement, applicants must also possess the Selective Placement Factor to qualify. Incumbent must have full competencies in both Financial Processing and Clinical Processing to conduct root cause analysis of data anomalies in order to identify, plan and initiate corrective actions under strict timelines in monthly processing routines AND this experience must be demonstrated clearly in applicant's resume.


2.
Please select the appropriate response below that is best related to this Selective Placement Factor.

 I possess full competencies in both Financial Processing and Clinical Processing to conduct root cause analysis of data anomalies in order to identify, plan and initiate corrective actions under strict time lines in monthly processing routines AND this experience is evident in my resume.
 I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor as described above in A.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙