Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Supervisory Project Manager)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13049917 - DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0150 - Geography
 B. 0193 - Archeology
 C. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 D. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 E. 0819 - Environmental Engineering
 F. 1301 - General Physical Science


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of 0150 Geographer at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in geography; or related physical or social science such as geology, meteorology, economics, statistics, sociology, anthropology, political science, history, cartography, computer science, urban studies, or planning which includes at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in geography, or a related field with at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of 0193 Archeologist at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) that included 3 semester hours each in the following course areas: (1) history of archeology; (2) archeology of a major geographical area such as North America or Africa; (3) regional archeology, archeological cultures, or sites in a specific part or portion of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development; (4) theory and methods of archeology which include, but are not limited to, typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, and analytical techniques; (5) archeological field school, to provide a basic understanding of theoretical and practical approaches to research design implementation, field preservation techniques, and report preparation by participation in actual field work; AND six semester hours of related course work in: (1) geography, geology, or cultural geography; (2) history, historiography, or historical archeology; (3) environmental studies; (4) scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); and/or (5) surveying; AND archeological field school. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline which satisfies in full the educational requirements, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements as shown in A above (including archeological field school). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education or training that provided knowledge equivalent to that described in A above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have four years of archeological work experience that demonstrates a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. The work experience must have included archeology field experience, which may include that gained in an archeological field school. Field experience should have included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher grade archeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief, directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archeological project.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of 0401 Biological Science at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of 1301 Physical Science at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics which included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to one of the majors, as shown in A above, that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


5.
Basic Education Requirement for all GS-0810 and GS-0819 Engineer Positions: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Civil or Environmental Engineer at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Interdisciplinary at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service which includes at least three of the following duties: Leading complex regulatory programs; OR implementing federal regulatory programs to ensure compliance with laws and regulations; managing critical permit processes; developing and implementing training programs for personnel; setting production goals to foster team building.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


7.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙