Position Title
Supervisory Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
GC-25-IMP-12765316 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 18, 2025 to Jul 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Government Accountability Office?
This includes Career/Career-Conditional employees serving on a non-temporary appointment. This does not include employees on temporary or term appointments.

To determine if you are eligible, your most recent SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action form should reflect:
career or career-conditional, Tenure of 1 or 2 in box 24 AND
status in the excepted service, Position Occupied of 2 in box 34.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) with your application.
Your SF-50 must include your position title, pay plan/series/band and tenure. Please be aware that award SF-50's may not include this pertinent information. If your last SF-50 is an award SF-50, please additionally submit the next most recent non-award SF-50 that does include the above fields.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Paralegal Specialist position with the Government Accountability Office, Office of General Counsel (OGC). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Applicants must have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the next lower band or level equivalent to the PE-II, PT-II, or GS-13 in the Federal Service, or comparable private/public sector experience which has equipped the applicant with the skills and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of the position.

Specialized experience is defined as experience:  1) applying management techniques, methods, theories, or principles concepts for the accomplishment of program objectives with combined technical and administrative oversight. (This experience may have been gained through work experience as a project/program manager, team lead or project/program lead, technical advisor, or senior specialist/analyst that included managing resources, providing support to managers, mentoring team members, providing day to day guidance training and/or oversight of peers or others); 2) conducting detailed legal research, including laws, regulations, case law, directives and legislative history; 3) drafting legal documents; and 4) providing liaison support to legal counsel in carrying out their responsibilities.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience working as a supervisor, team lead, project manager or reviewing the work of others. Select all that apply.
 A. I have provided general standing instructions on recurring assignments by indicating what is to be done, applicable policies, procedures and methods to follow, data and information required, quality and quantity of work expected, priority of assignments, and deadlines.
 B. I have established qualitative and quantitative measures for the performance and outcomes of the unit.
 C. I have provided specific instructions for new, difficult, or special assignments including suggested procedures, sources of information including the location and type of written material that may be used as an aid in completing the assignment.
 D. I have reviewed the work of others for missing or incompatible information.
 E. I have assured that finished work and methods used are technically accurate and in compliance with established instructions, methods, procedures, and deadlines.
 F. I have assigned work with standing instructions on objectives, priorities, and deadlines and provided guidance for unusually involved situations.
 G. I have evaluated completed work for overall technical soundness and conformance to agency policies, legal, or system requirements.
 H. I have provided training to other employees or provide assistance to others who need help with assignments not specifically covered by general instructions or regulations.
 I. None of the above.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your experience establishing work priorities for others?
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job.
 I have limited experience performing this task.
 I have no experience performing this task.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience developing operational standards and procedures for the work unit or department?
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


5.
Select the statement that best represents your experience gathering existing information from various sources, including computer systems, to prepare routine reports.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had experience locating and gathering information from reference sources (for example, library materials or the Internet) for academic assignments.
 I have had experience locating and gathering information for academic assignments and in work settings, and I have used a variety of sources (for example, reference materials, files, records, databases, reports, or the Internet).
 I have had extensive experience locating and gathering information in a work setting using a variety of sources. I have applied the information collected to the performance of my work responsibilities and disseminated information as appropriate.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your experience evaluating evidence, facts, circumstances, and other incidents to better process a case including recommending a decision.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have gathered basic information relating to a case that others were responsible for working.
 I have had some experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to routine cases that I have worked.
 I have had extensive experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to my case workload, and I have used this information to reconcile inconsistencies as necessary.
 I have been responsible for ensuring that others process evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to different cases, reviewing their findings, and using the information to reconcile inconsistencies.


7.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate in writing.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have written responses to requests for information, or I have edited non-technical writing from others.
 I have written policies, procedures, training manuals or other technical materials.
 I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, and precedents covering legal actions, or I have written other materials that presented sensitive or controversial information.


8.
Select the statement that best describes your experience communicating information orally to others.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have communicated my ideas or other information to individuals or groups primarily within my organization on non-technical matters, using terminology that was familiar to the audience. I have occasionally participated in formal group discussions.
 I have communicated occasionally with persons or groups outside of my organization, or I have participated actively as a member of my organization or group in discussions, meetings, or team projects where I had to express my ideas or opinions on non-technical and non-specialized matters.
 I have represented my organization or group in meetings and dealings with other groups or organizations for the purpose of proposing and gaining acceptance of ideas and explaining or coordinating views regarding complex, technical, or specialized subject matter.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your experience briefing management on controversial issues or problems with widespread impact.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had some experience presenting my immediate supervisor with information or issues that could be considered controversial in nature.
 I have had experience briefing my immediate supervisor and other supervisors and management officials in my organization on controversial issues.
 I have had extensive experience briefing management on controversial issues both within my organization as well as outside of my immediate organization.


10.
Select the statement that best describes your experience conducting searches for court precedents, relevant statutes, administrative decisions, and regulatory materials.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had some experience searching for court precedents, relevant statutes, administrative decisions, and regulatory materials in support of routine assignments.
 I have had extensive experience searching for court precedents, relevant statutes, administrative decisions, and regulatory materials for a wide range of assignments from routine to highly complex and sensitive.


11.
Select the choice which best reflects your experience in reviewing case files, identifying salient issues, and applying the relevant laws in a written decision.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 have reviewed some routine case files for salient issues and presented my findings to others more senior than myself.
 I have had some experience reviewing case files of both a routine and complex nature to identify salient issues as well as researching the applicable laws.
 I have had extensive experience reviewing case files to identify salient issues and applying the relevant laws in written decisions.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


12.
Select the statement that best describes your experience using data developed through research, compiling legal memoranda setting out issues, facts, and circumstances, and legal conclusions for assigned matters.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


13.
Select the statement that best describes your experience researching legal precedents, points of law and regulations using physical and/or computer-assisted research resources.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information in and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙