Position Title
Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (AVREO)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
402-26-DS-13039876-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (AVREO), GS-13 grade level, with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment following acceptance.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the area of consideration. This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent  VBA employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for this position.
 Yes, I am a current permanent, VBA employee.
 Yes, I am a current or former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and I will submit my CTAP supporting documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 Neither A nor B applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


TIME-IN-GRADE: Requirement for applicants who are/were federal employees: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 Notice of Personnel Action (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. The SF-50 must include your position title, series, grade, step, tenure (1 or 2), and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time-in-grade requirement.


2.
GS-13: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your time-in-grade:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). NOTE: Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level or higher. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


Please Note: This series has a Basic Requirement per the following Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR), and applicants will be required to meet both the IOR and the Specialized experience as listed on the announcement. 

The IOR for this position is as follows:

BASIC REQUIREMENTS To be eligible for this position, you must have one of the following degrees. Your application MUST include a transcript (not diploma) stating the degree has been conferred or that you have graduated.

EDUCATION: Successful completion of a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling, or social work from an accredited college or university (MUST SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS).

INTERNSHIP OR EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Your degree must have included either an internship or experience as described below.  (1) Supervised Internship: The education described above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs. OR(2) Experience: One-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.

GRANDFATHERING PROVISIONS: VRCs employed within the VBA on the effective date July 28, 2023, of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certifications that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
1. VRCs who are grandfathered into the GS-0101 occupational series may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level of a career ladder or changed to a lower grade within the occupation or placed in a supervisory or managerial position.
2. VRCs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not be extended or reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard.
3. If VRCs who are grandfathered under this provision leave the occupation, they lose protected status and must meet the full qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.


3.
From the descriptions below, please select the responses that best reflects your level of education or experience to meet the Basic Requirement per the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for the Supervisory Vocational Counselor (AVREO), GS-0101-13.
 I have successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling, or social work from an accredited college or university.
 I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023, and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I have NOT successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) as described in "A" above, nor am I eligible for the grandfathering provision in "B" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


4.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (AVREO) at the GS-13 level.
 In addition to the IOR above, I have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Experience in conducting assessments of Veteran’s employability; Involvement in the development of appropriate vocational goals and subsequent objectives outlined in rehabilitation plans; Providing case management services to Veterans while pursuing their rehabilitation plans (e.g. personal contact regarding achievement of vocational goals, referral for medical or ancillary services, and responding efficiently to Veteran’s concerns); Experience in training; and understanding and clearly explaining to Veterans, the benefits, and services available through the VR&E program.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: job title duties (be as detailed as possible); month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙