Position Title
Supervisory Auditor (Assistant Regional Inspector General for Audit)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-26-13015701-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
I am currently employed as a permanent, career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service, HOWEVER, I have not held the full performance level of this position.
Note: Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1")
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you wish to be considered under a CTAP (Career Transition Assistance Plan) eligibility? You may qualify for CTAP eligibility if all of the statements apply to you:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy.
You have been (or will be) involuntarily separated from the agency advertising this position, due to a reduction-in-force.
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position separated from.
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position separated from.
Your last performance rating of record is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
For more information about CTAP, please see the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility for CTAP:
You must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must also submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing position, tenure code, grade & step, and full name/DOB/SSN.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am a current or former, permanent, Federal employee in the competitive service WITH the SAME or HIGHER full performance level of this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the competitive service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the competitive service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former competitive service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Monterey Park, CA
 C. Sacramento, CA
 D. San Diego, CA
 E. San Francisco, CA
 F. Jacksonville, FL
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Tallahassee, FL
 I. Atlanta, GA
 J. Raleigh, NC
 K. Harrisburg, PA
 L. Philadelphia, PA
 M. Columbia, SC
 N. Seattle, WA


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The area of consideration for this vacancy announcement is HHS OIG employees only. Choose the response to the question below that best describes how you meet this requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you current Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of Inspector General federal employee serving on a permanent Career or a Career-Conditional Appointment; an employee with HHS eligible under the career transition assistance program (CTAP); or a former HHS employee who is eligible under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL)?  (CTAP/RPL applicants must submit eligibility documentation with application package)
 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one that best describes your education and/or experience qualification requirements for the Auditor position.
 I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
 I have at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. In addition, I have one of the following: (1) Twenty-four (24) semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to six (6) hours of business law; (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., fifteen (15) semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the twenty-four (24) semester-hour requirement and I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; or a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the four (4) year course of study described in paragraph A; or except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of twenty-four (24) semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not possess the positive education requirement or the combination of education and experience described above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the Supervisory Auditor, GS-0511-14 position.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which provided me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: (1) Conducting internal and external audits of state agencies, local government entities, grantees, major insurance corporations, and/or hospitals in compliance with established audit standards and procedures; (2) Developing comprehensive reports of audit findings and recommendations; (3) Serving as project lead or senior auditor on audit assignments; and (4) Providing advice and guidance to internal and external stakeholders on technical audit issues.
 I do not have the experience described in option A above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731 ). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙