Position Title
Auditor (Financial)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
318-2026-AB-12961981-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Winston-Salem Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am eligible as a CTAP eligible with documentation submitted as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


2.
Time in Grade GS11:  For the GS-11 grade level, do you have at least one year (52 weeks) time in grade as a GS-09? Provide a non-award, non-General Adjustment SF-50. (You can provide your most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion, or Change to Lower Grade SF-50).
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have at least one year time in grade as a GS-09 grade level.
 No, I do not meet time in grade requirements.


3.
Time in Grade GS12:  For the GS-12 grade level, do you have at least one year (52 weeks) time in grade as a GS-11? Provide a non-award, non-General Adjustment SF-50. (You can provide your most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion, or Change to Lower Grade SF-50).
 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have at least one year time in grade as a GS-11 grade level.
 No, I do not meet time in grade requirements.


4.
BASIC EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENT:  From the descriptions below, please select a response that best describes the level of education you fully possess that demonstrates your qualifications for the position of Auditor (Financial Quality Review Specialist). Please select only one response.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study in accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.
 I have a combination of education and experience to meet the basic education requirement which includes: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; OR A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of accounting, and I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, ( e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining)
 I do not meet the basic education requirements listed above and will no longer be considered for this position.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: In addition to above requirements (time in grade and basic education), your application documents must also demonstrate that you meet the specialized experience requirements. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position, and that is typically IN OR RELATED TO the work of this position. Note: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression of this position in the Federal Service.


5.
From the descriptions below, select a response that BEST describes the specialized experience you fully possess that demonstrates your qualifications for the Financial Quality Review Specialist GS-11. 

Specialized experience is defined as administration and oversite of fiscal programs that include the payment for general operating expenditures and payments. Additionally, candidates must show experience in two of the following areas to be considered:
1. Administering an agency benefits payment program.
2. Experience in the functional aspects of the finance section to include completion of financial statements, cost reports, and balance sheets.
3. Maintaining an organization budget for staff expenditures.
4. Providing accounting analysis and advice to senior management officials
 I Possess one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher indicating my ability to perform the duties of this position at the grade level of GS-11. Specialized experience is defined as administration and oversite of fiscal programs that include the payment for general operating expenditures and payments. Additionally, my resume shows experience in two of the following areas: Administering an agency benefits payment program. Experience in the functional aspects of the finance section to include completion of financial statements, cost reports, and balance sheets. Maintaining an organization budget for staff expenditures. Providing accounting analysis and advice to senior management officials. (NOTE-Specialized experience must be clearly stated in your resume and no assumptions will be made.)
 I do not have one (1) full year of specialized experience as shown above and therefore I am not qualified.


6.
From the descriptions below, select a response that BEST describes the specialized experience you fully possess that demonstrates your qualifications for the Auditor (Financial), GS-12.

Specialized experience is defined as administration and oversite of fiscal programs that include the payment for general operating expenditures and payments. Additionally, candidates must show experience in two of the following areas to be considered:
1. Administering an agency benefits payment program.
2. Experience in the functional aspects of the finance section to include completion of financial statements, cost reports, and balance sheets.
3. Maintaining an organization budget for staff expenditures.
4. Providing accounting analysis and advice to senior management officials.
 I Possess one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level or higher indicating my ability to perform the duties of this position at the grade level of GS-12. Specialized experience is defined as administration and oversite of fiscal programs that include the payment for general operating expenditures and payments. Additionally, my resume shows experience in two of the following areas: Reconciling accounts, validating a variety of accounting data (which is then enter into an accounting system(s). Ability to manipulate excel proficiently with large data pools  Training and modifying audit programs and plans, aligning audit steps with risk assessments, and/or Ability to clearly, concisely and proficiently convey analytical findings to various levels of lower level and upper management of the agency.
 I do not have one (1) full year of specialized experience as shown above and therefore I am not qualified.


INSTRUCTIONS: As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
Certification:  I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙