Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
DE-13021244-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that describes your level of education and experience.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution-AND- 2. Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the GS-14 or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector. Specialized Experience includes: Experience planning, directing, coordinating, and managing complex contracting and procurement initiatives; experience evaluating contracting policies, procedures, and processes for compliance with Federal contracting and procurement laws, rules, and regulations; experience monitoring overall strategic policy and program effectiveness of agency-wide contracting activities; and experience facilitating training, coaching, teambuilding, employee engagement, and/or providing recommendations for employee development.
 I do not possess the required education/ specialized experience required for this position.


2.
Please describe your experience providing guidance in determining adequacy of acquisition planning documentation such as: contract solicitation, contract type, contract management, and contract negotiation.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.


3.
Please describe your level of experience conducting evaluations of procurement program using established standards and criteria to measure program effectiveness.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.


4.
Select the type of contracts you have administered, lead, or supervised. (Select all that applies)
Fixed-Price with Economic Price Adjustment
 A. Firm Fixed-Price
 B. Fixed-Price with Economic Price Adjustment
 C. Fixed-Price Incentive
 D. Fixed-Price with re-determination
 E. Cost and Cost Sharing
 F. Cost-Plus-Incentive-Fee
 G. Cost-Plus-Award-Fee
 H. Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee
 I. Time and Material (Labor-Hour)
 J. Letter Contract
 K. Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity or Requirements Contracts
 L. Performance-based service contracting (PBSC)
 M. Sealed Bidding
 N. None of the above


5.
Choose one of the following supervisory duties you have performed.
 Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities and prepared schedules for completion of work
 Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 Recognized and rewarded employees for their contributions. Developed performance standards, evaluated work performance and gave performance appraisals to subordinates.
 Counseled and/or disciplined employees regarding performance and/or conduct issues.
 Identified developmental and training needs of employees based on organizational goals and budget realities and used merit principles to take actions to satisfy needs.
 Interviewed candidates for positions in the unit, made selections, and processed candidates for promotion or reassignments.
 I have not performed any of the duties listed above.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙