Position Title
PHYSICAL SECURITY SPECIALIST
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13017027-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-11: The applicant must have 52 weeks of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes AT LEAST 3 of the following:

-Conducting physical security compliance based on Inter-agency Security Committee standards, policy, and regulations; OR
-Identifying and collecting information about security incidents and violations by interviewing employees, developing the facts, communicating lessons learned, and recommending corrective actions or changes to security; OR
-Detecting security gaps and recommending countermeasures for existing or new facilities by conducting surveys; OR
-Demonstrated experience using HSPD-12 and Physical Access Control Systems and performing as a separated role (Registrar) in the US Access PIV Card system; AND
-Determining level of security leased facilities based on the level of protection as stated in the Inter-agency Security Committee standards, agency policy, or procedures, and best practices.

OR You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
OR You may qualify by a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 2 years may be combined with experience.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes your education and/or experience.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related, that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal Service.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study (only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for a GS-11 position) and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


Specialized experience for the GS-9: The applicant must have 52 weeks of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:

-Drafting correspondence and communication related to personnel/physical or INFOSEC security processing.; AND
-Providing guidance regarding the personnel/physical or INFOSEC security processes; AND
-Applying practical security principles, concepts and methods in carrying out assignments.

OR You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Master's or equivalent graduate degree, if related; OR
2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, if related; or LL.B. or J.D., if related; OR
You may qualify by a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours may be combined with experience.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your qualifying education or experience.
 I possess a Master's or equivalent related graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, if related OR LL.B. or J.D., if related, that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level in the Federal Service.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position as outlined in the job announcement.
 I do not have qualifying education or experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙