Position Title
Acquisition Management Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-26-12971379-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current/former employee of a Federal agency under an Interchange agreement or other similar authority?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

For additional information on interchange agreements and similar authorities, click here
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee of a Land Management Agency that meets the eligibility requirements listed below?  Land Management agencies include the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Reclamation.  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation (i.e. performance appraisal(s) and all SF-50s (e.g. appointment date, separation date)) as proof of eligibility.
Must have been initially hired into a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and
Must have served under one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and
Must have performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and
If no longer employed by the land management agency, must have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current Department of the Commerce employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
 Yes
 No


7.

Do you meet any of the following Non-Competitive eligibilities?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

You are a current federal employee with career or career-conditional status in the competitive service and have held the same or higher grade than the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with a permanent career appointment and have held the same or higher grade than the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with career-conditional status (within 3 years of separation or preference eligible) and have held the same or higher grade than the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee eligible for reinstatement to a higher grade/band than previously held, with at least one year since separation and a most recent performance rating of "Fully Successful" or equivalent. (SF-50 and performance documentation required.)

To verify eligibility as a current or former federal employee, submit your SF-50 (or equivalent) showing permanent, competitive status. If you resigned under career-conditional status, include your resignation SF-50. You may need to submit multiple SF-50s.

Your SF-50 must reflect:

Block 34 (Position Occupied) = "1"
Block 24 (Tenure) = "1" or "2"
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you meet any of the following Merit Promotion-Competitive eligibilities?
Note: You must submit supporting documentation to verify your eligibility.
You are a current federal employee with career or career-conditional status, but the highest permanent grade you've held is below the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with a permanent career appointment in the competitive service, and the highest grade you held is below the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with career-conditional status (within 3 years of separation or a preference-eligible veteran), and the highest grade you held is below the full performance level of the position being announced.
To verify eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, submit your Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) or equivalent showing permanent, competitive status. If you resigned under career-conditional status, include your resignation SF-50. You may need to provide more than one SF-50.
Your SF-50 should reflect:
Block 34 (Position Occupied) = "1"
Block 24 (Tenure) = "1" or "2"
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you the spouse of an active-duty member of the Armed Forces eligible under E.O. 13832 and P.L. 115-232: The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active-duty OR the spouse of a retired/separated member of the Armed Forces with a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veteran Affairs OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active-duty status?

If you indicate Yes for this question, you MUST submit the following:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage), AND
If based on member's Active-Duty status: proof of active-duty status, i.e. spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active-Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status.
If based on member's 100% disability:  verification of the member's retirement or release/discharge from active duty AND verification of 100% service-connected disability (DD-214 and/or VA Letter, https://www.va.gov/records/download-va-letters/.
If based on member's death: verification of the member's death while on active-duty (DD-1300).
For more information, review FedsHireVets.gov.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a current or former employee of one of the Federal agencies listed below who is eligible for non-competitive consideration?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
 Yes
 No


11.
Have you previously served as a NOAA Commissioned Officer under NOAA Corps and separated honorably after at least 3 years of active service?

To verify your eligibility as a former NOAA Corps Officer, you must submit a copy of your NOAA Form 56-16.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a veteran separated under honorable conditions who has a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?  This includes: 
Veterans who retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Veterans rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 % or more.
Note: You will be required to provide supporting documentation. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for information on submitting documentation.

 Yes
 No


13.
Are you eligible for noncompetitive consideration under a hiring authority not otherwise listed?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member, or a current or former Peace Corps employee who meets one of the requirements described below for noncompetitive eligibility?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months. *OR*
Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student, or other experience related to this position. *OR*
Current Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more.  *OR*
Former Peace Corps employee who completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years.   
 Yes
 No


15.
In the last five (5) years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?  (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5).  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFT 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


16.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric, or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability Appointment for which you can provide appropriate documentation issued by a licensed medical professional; a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist; or any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits?   Note: you are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. For additional information on requirements, click here
 Yes
 No


17.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)? This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference.
Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Tuscaloosa, AL
 B. Anchorage, AK
 C. Honolulu, HI
 D. College Park, MD
 E. Silver Spring, MD
 F. Grandview, MO
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. Bohemia, NY
 I. Norman, OK
 J. Fort Worth, TX
 K. Salt Lake City, UT
 L. Sterling, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of an Acquisition Management Specialist, GS-13-1101-13, or equivalent grade level in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in the procurement of supplies, equipment, services, or performing contracting activities such as performing pre-award and post-award procurement actions, preparing requisitions, tracking funds, etc.; and Reviewing advice or guidance on acquisition and procurement strategy.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of an Acquisition Management Specialist, GS-13-1101-14, or equivalent grade level in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Planning or coordinating the procurement of supplies, equipment, services or performing contracting activities for a program or project (i.e. performing pre-award and post-award procurement actions, preparing requisitions, tracking funds, etc.); Providing technical advice or serving as point of contact to provide information on acquisition and procurement strategy; and Providing procedures or plans for the development or implementation of acquisition strategies for a project.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
A program office is preparing an acquisition package and needs to determine the most appropriate contract vehicle. What is the PRIMARY role of the acquisition strategy support analyst in this situation?

 Independently awarding the contract to the selected vendor
 Advising program officials on procurement options and appropriate contractual vehicles
 Certifying contractor invoices prior to award
 Approving legal sufficiency of the procurement package


2.
Which of the following BEST describes the purpose of applying the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) throughout the acquisition life cycle?

 To standardize government procurement procedures and ensure compliance with legal requirements
 To allow program offices to bypass competition requirements
 To limit the authority of contracting officers
 To replace agency-specific acquisition policies


3.
During acquisition planning for a new technical system, program leadership asks for an analysis of whether the requirement should be competed through a new contract or placed on an existing contract vehicle. What should the analyst primarily evaluate when developing this recommendation?

 Whether a preferred vendor has previously worked with the program
 Mission requirements, schedule constraints, cost considerations, and available procurement vehicles
 The contractor’s current staffing levels
 The availability of unused program funds


4.
Which of the following is considered a best practice when developing an acquisition strategy to ensure long-term program success?

 Focusing exclusively on the initial award cost to minimize immediate budget impact.
 Identifying the acquisition approach while addressing factors such as obsolescence, supportability, and technology refresh.
 Delaying the identification of program risks until after the contract has been awarded and administered.
 Ensuring that all acquisition activities are executed without developing internal Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to maintain flexibility


5.
When working as a liaison on acquisitions with external and internal customers, which of the following facilitates an effective acquisition strategy?

 Prioritizing technical requirements over the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to accelerate the solicitation award.
 Maintaining "arms-length" separation from requirements officials while exercising sound business judgment during contracting duties.
 Limiting the acquisition plan to only delivery and performance-period requirements to reduce documentation complexity.
 Delegating the identification of program risks entirely to the Acquisition and Grants Office (AGO) staff.


6.
While reviewing a draft acquisition strategy, the specialist identifies that market research has not been adequately documented. Why is this a significant concern?

 Market research is only required after contract award
 Market research supports acquisition planning decisions and helps ensure competition and appropriate procurement methods
 Market research replaces the need for technical requirements documentation
 Market research determines the contractor’s payment schedule


7.
A program office proposes a procurement approach that may limit competition but could reduce acquisition timelines. What is the most appropriate role of the acquisition management specialist?

 Approve the strategy and proceed with the procurement
 Select the contractor most likely to meet program needs
 Assess regulatory requirements and provide guidance on acquisition options that balance efficiency, competition, and compliance
 Direct the contracting officer to finalize the contract documentation


8.
During a strategic planning effort, an analyst is asked to develop goals for a new initiative intended to improve operational efficiency. Which characteristic should the goals MOST appropriately include?

 Broad statements that allow flexibility in interpretation
 Goals that are measurable, time-bound, and aligned with organizational objectives
 Goals focused only on short-term operational activities
 Goals based solely on available budget funding


9.
While conducting a study of program operations, an analyst identifies recurring delays caused by inconsistent internal procedures across multiple teams. What is the MOST appropriate action?

 Document the issue but defer action to program leadership
 Allow each team to continue using its preferred process
 Recommend standardized procedures and develop an implementation plan to improve efficiency
 Focus only on budget impacts of the delays


10.
When evaluating the effectiveness of management processes and program implementation, which approach is required to ensure a sound basis for long-range program management?

 Utilizing quantitative and qualitative methods to conduct studies on operating programs and providing continuous assessment of strategies.
 Focusing solely on short-term project activities to meet immediate performance-period requirements.
 Limiting analysis to financial budget trends without considering the integration of program or project activities.
 Prioritizing the establishment of deliverables over the development of criteria used to measure program accomplishments.


11.
During the project execution phase, how should an Acquisition Management Specialist coordinate and integrate activities to ensure they align with the office's strategic mission?

 By defining project scope and unique requirements while establishing milestones and deliverables.
 By delegating the setting of priorities and integration of activities to the Acquisition and Grants Office (AGO).
 By avoiding the development of new procedures for program evaluation to maintain established administrative precedents.
 By focusing primarily on the final project close-out documentation rather than the initial definition of project scope.


12.
An acquisition analyst reviewing contract status notices several Undelivered Orders (UDOs) that have remained open for an extended period. What is the MOST appropriate action?

 Ignore the orders until the fiscal year ends
 Investigate the status of the contracts and coordinate with contracting and program staff to pursue closure
 Automatically de-obligate all remaining funds
 Transfer the funds to another program


13.
During contract administration, a program manager requests a change to the technical requirements that will increase the scope and cost of the contract. What is the MOST appropriate action for the acquisition analyst?

 Direct the contractor to implement the change immediately
 Coordinate with the Contracting Officer to determine whether a formal contract modification is required
 Approve the change if funds are available
 Ask the contractor to absorb the cost of the change


14.
As the procurement and contract expert, what is your primary responsibility when advising technical personnel and Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) during the initial phase of an acquisition?

 Determining the final physical location for all supplies and equipment storage.
 Managing the daily attendance records of the contractor’s professional staff.
 Developing statements of work (SOWs) and translating technical requirements into viable contracts.
 Bypassing legal reviews to ensure that specialized services are obtained as quickly as possible.


15.
When formulating a contracting approach for services that require specialized handling provisions or unique terms and conditions, which action must the specialist take to ensure regulatory compliance?

 Use only formally advertised procurement methods regardless of the complexity of the requirements.
 Delegate the formulation of guidelines to the technical personnel requesting the service.
 Avoid the use of negotiated procurements to simplify the administrative process.
 Implement new developments and provide policy interpretations that align with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).


16.
After a contract for professional or technical services has been secured, an acquisition specialist should:

 Lead and oversee contract administration to ensure high-quality services delivery and goal accomplishment.
 Draft the initial legislation that funds the program’s strategic mission.
 Focus on the procurement of office supplies to the exclusion of construction or technical services.
 Limit oversight to the pre-award phase only, leaving post-award actions to the vendor.


17.
A program manager requests a status review of several active contracts supporting a major operational system. Which action would best support effective acquisition management?

 Reviewing contractor invoices without assessing performance progress
 Focusing only on contract award dates
 Assessing contract performance, funding status, schedule milestones, and risk factors affecting delivery
 Limiting the review to contractor staffing levels


18.
During a review of program performance metrics, an analyst finds that several indicators do not accurately measure program outcomes. What is the most appropriate action?

 Continue using the existing metrics to maintain consistency
 Eliminate performance tracking requirements
 Recommend revised metrics that more clearly measure program outputs and mission outcomes
 Limit analysis to financial expenditures only


19.
When preparing a Statement of Work (SOW) for a new contract, which characteristic is MOST important to ensure effective contract performance?

 Clearly defining measurable tasks, deliverables, and performance expectations
 Allowing the contractor flexibility to determine all deliverables
 Using general language to allow interpretation
 Limiting the description of performance requirements


20.
Which of the following actions is within the authority of a COR?

 Modifying contract terms or scope
 Terminating a contract for convenience
 Monitoring contractor performance and documenting compliance with contract requirements
 Awarding new task orders under the contract


21.
During contract performance monitoring, a COR observes that a contractor's deliverables do not fully meet the technical requirements defined in the contract. What is the most appropriate action?

 Modify the contract requirements to match the deliverable
 Document the issue and notify the Contracting Officer while working with the contractor to address the deficiency
 Approve the deliverable to avoid project delays
 Direct the contractor to perform additional work outside the contract scope


22.
Which activity best demonstrates effective COR oversight during contract performance?

 Authorizing changes to the contract scope to address operational needs
 Negotiating contract pricing with the contractor
 Tracking contractor deliverables, reviewing performance against contract requirements, and maintaining documentation of oversight activities
 Issuing task orders for additional work


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


23.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙