Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Assistant PACS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12852098-26-TAN Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Picture Archival Communication System) or PACS position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents as we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language 
Are you proficient in basic spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C 7402(d) and 7404(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education 
Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please enter the following information regarding your education in a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist program accredited by Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Name of School:
Degree Obtained: 
Conferred Date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification
Are you certified in Advanced radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable.

Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist. 

(A COPY OF YOUR ADVANCED CERTIFICATION IS REQUIRED TO RECEIVE CREDIT FOR THIS POSITION)
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please enter the following information regarding your certification in a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist. All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT).

Name of Certification:
Certification Obtained: 
Certification Expiration Date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Determination (GS-10)
Do you possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-9) level that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level?

Examples of experience includes:
Ability to provide technical oversight and assign personnel and tasks to be accomplished in a manner that assures completion of the workload utilizing the personnel to the greatest advantage thus providing the optimal level of patient care within the workday.
Ability to plan, direct, and distribute work assignments to DRTs at lower grade levels.
Skill in instructing and training DRTs on newly acquired equipment.
Ability to plan and project staffing needs.
Skill to independently perform general and specialized diagnostic radiologic procedures in advanced levels of complex treatment situations.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-10 (Full Performance Level) Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: 
In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to provide support and troubleshoot system application and hardware issues and instruct users in the proper operation of digital image processing, storage and display systems.
Ability to perform VistA radiology, VistA imaging, and PACS support activities and general ADPAC duties including user access control.
Ability to initiate repair requests with appropriate services or vendors.
Knowledge of PACS system infrastructure and functionality.
Ability to provide training to all user levels in the efficient use of imaging hardware and software of the integrated PACS system.
Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures so he/she will be able to perform and reconcile image information correctly and efficiently during technical post processing and evaluation.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙