Position Title
ELECTRONICS MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13058017-AR-26-116 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Nov 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10
11


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E1 - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E1 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates the applicants knowledge of electrical or electronic theory, knowledge of common testing procedures, skill in the use of hand tools of the electronics trade, and skill in reading schematics?
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-08: Do you possess 12 months experience or training in utilizing principles, basic functions and application of theory of electronic systems or equipment? Experience in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic equipment or systems. Experience in using hand tools, power tools and gauges to make intricate repairs. Experience in using diagnostic and testing equipment. Experience which demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications.
 Yes
 No


3.
WG-10: Do you possess 18 months experience or training in utilizing principles, basic functions and application of theory of electronic systems or equipment? Experience in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic equipment or systems. Experience in making mechanical repairs that required the use of precision measuring and calibrating equipment. Experience in using complex test equipment such as deviation meters, complex special test panels, etc. Experience which demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications.
 Yes
 No


4.
WG-11:  Do you possess 18 months experience installing, modifying, overhauling, maintaining, and troubleshooting complex electronic equipment and complete operational systems composed of multiple integral components, requiring comprehensive knowledge of wide-ranging electronics principles. Unlike Grade 10 mechanics who work on independent components or systems of limited complexity, Grade 11 specialists evaluate operator discrepancy reports, perform operational checks, and execute system-level repairs across sophisticated avionics, radar, weapon fire control, COMSEC, and satellite communications platforms. Typical assignments include full-lifecycle maintenance and testing on integrated airborne and surface directional finding facilities, tactical commander terminals, long-range air traffic control search radar, and electronic countermeasures equipment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Describe your experience maintaining, troubleshooting, and repairing complete aircraft avionics and navigational systems.- List the specific systems you have worked on (such as GPS, radar, flight controls, radios, or weapons systems).- Provide an example of a complex system repair or modification you completed.


6.
Describe your experience performing on-aircraft checks and replacing Line Replaceable Units (LRUs).- Explain how you use wiring diagrams, schematics, and technical manuals to isolate faults.- Identify the standard test equipment (TMDE) you use to adjust and align components.


7.
Describe your experience testing, repairing, and aligning components on a test bench.- Mention the test equipment used (e.g., Automated Test Equipment, oscilloscopes, multimeters).- Describe your work troubleshooting circuit cards, electronic modules, or microelectronics.


8.
Describe your experience debriefing aircrews and documenting maintenance actions.- Detail how you translate pilot/aircrew feedback into actionable maintenance steps.- Describe your experience logging maintenance data and reporting equipment or technical manual deficiencies.


9.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙