Position Title
Nurse (Occupational Health)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-13022057-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Nurse(Occupational Health), position with the Defense Health Agency, Department of Defense. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Minimum Qualification (Education)

Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Occupational Health) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor’s degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained OR I have a degree from a Foreign Nursing School that is accompanied by an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools certification.)
 I do not meet the requirements above. However, I was previously employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War for at least one year OR am currently employed as a Nurse or Practical Nurse in the Department of War AND after commencing employment with the Department of War obtained a bachelor’s degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Minimum Qualifications (Licensure)

The Nurse (Occupational Health) occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and you must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and have passed the National Council Licensure Examination? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)
 Yes
 I have not passed the National Council Licensure Examination as stated above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


3.
Minimum Qualification

Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Occupational Health) at the GS-0610-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one or more full years of professional nursing experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes managing complex occupational medicine programs and providing quality worker care in collaboration with providers, industrial hygiene, safety, management personnel and the workers ; planning, developing, organizing and managing a comprehensive Occupational Health services program ; Providing consultation, guidance and technical assistance to nurses, industrial hygienists, safety officers, Human Resources personnel, and supervisors.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙