Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist - Sleep Program
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12980815-26-JD-Foxtrot Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor? (If your school program was accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating). A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.
 Yes
 No


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Respiratory Care education or other details to support your response.
Name of Institution
City and State
Level of Education (Associates, Bachelors, etc.)
Month and Year conferred


3.
Licensure: Do you possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?
Please select the statement below that best describes your license(s) from an state(s) to meet the qualification requirement. (You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application).
 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT). (You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application).
 I'm currently employed in VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and have been determined to be covered by the Grandfathering Provision an may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation.
 I do NOT possess a license as described in the above statements.


3a.
Provide the following information regarding your state(s) license(s) (active and expired):
License type:
License number:
State issued:
Original Issuance date and date of expiration: 


4.
Credentials: Please select the statement below that best describes your credential(s) from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) to meet the qualification requirement.
 I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Certified Respiratory Therapists (CRT), and have completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor, and possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and I'm in the process of obtaining credentials from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) to become an Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I do NOT possess the credential(s) as described in the above.


4a.
Provide the following information regarding your credential(s) from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) (active and expired):
Credentials type:
Original issuance date and date of expiration:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GRADE DETERMINATION FOR RRT GS-11: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must have one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at the GS--9 level and an active license and an RRT credential from NBRC.
In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
1. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
2. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
3. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
 Yes
 No


REMINDER - you must provide a complete application package which includes:
* Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title, Grade Level (for Federal positions), Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position), Month & year start/end dates, (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status, (include hours worked per week)
* Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
* Veteran's Preference Documentation - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
* If you are a current or former VA or Federal Employee, you must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50)
* Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙