Position Title
Electrician
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13081176-DHA
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
RG 100922 CE Electrician 2136 MPP
.
Thank you for your interest in an Electrician position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult installing underground wiring using trencher and testing circuits by use of a variety of tools. I have a minimum of four years experience with industrial motor control and troubleshooting. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of installing electrical wiring systems. I have a minimum of four years experience with industrial motor control and troubleshooting. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks to electrical systems. I have a minimum of four years experience with industrial motor control and troubleshooting. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common repairs to electrical systems. I have a minimum of four years experience with industrial motor control and troubleshooting. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple inspections on electrical equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
