Position Title
ELECTRONIC MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13023628-AR-26-159 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (G4 - CSMS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (G4 - CSMS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E1 - E9) or Warrant Officer (WO1 - CW3)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   
 


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-11 Electronic Measurement Equipment Mechanic.
 I HAVE experience or training, 1) which demonstrates a working knowledge of electronic principles involved in the generation and measurement of such elements as voltage, current, impedance, capacitance, frequency, and inductance, and 2) that use of various precision measurement instruments and standards.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-11 Electronic Measurement Equipment Mechanic.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training, 1) in operating principles, production and utilization of oscillations over a broad range of frequencies; signal and waveform behavior, distortion, and amplification; pulse, trigger, and synchronization techniques; digital/analog processing and data conversion techniques; and a variety of display and indication methods, 2) in tracing signals and voltage paths, and skilled in the analysis of waveform characteristics such as timing, duration, frequency, and phasing, 3) that test set-ups to isolate malfunctions and check performance characteristics of special or unique test panels or mockups, 4) in interpreting and applying a variety of technical electronic information such as schematic symbols, mathematical expressions and formulas, calibration procedures, and other reference materials, 5) in applying established techniques and methods of repair, testing, alignment, and calibration of equipment, which serves as test equipment or precision measurement standards, and 6) in utilizing electronic circuits to measure electronic or electrical quantities to determine the performance characteristics and accuracy of other instruments and equipment.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙