Position Title
Supervisory General Attorney (Labor) (Officer-In-Charge)
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26IX12982051KR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently a NLRB employee in the Excepted Service?

If you indicate that you are eligible by selecting "yes" for this question, you MUST submit documentation such as a Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that verifies your eligibility.  (The SF-50 block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2")
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Juan, PR
 B. Milwaukee, WI


2.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


4.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


5.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the response which most accurately describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory General Attorney (Labor) (Officer-In-Charge) at the GS-15 grade level.

Specialized experience includes:
Experience coordinating, planning and monitoring the legal activities, and caseload of an office to ensure appropriate resources are assigned, priorities are established, and overall goals are met; and
Experience providing expert opinion and counsel on cases determined to have merit under the NLRA; and
Experience providing guidance and/or overseeing the preparation of cases for trials; and engaging in research and legal analysis of complaints, briefs, evidence and other legal documents of complex and/or unique cases to support response to difficult legal questions and factual issues.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level, which has provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of a Supervisory General Attorney (Labor) (Officer-In-Charge) position as described above.
 I do not possess the required experience to successfully perform the duties of the Supervisory General Attorney (Labor) (Officer-In-Charge) position as described above.


2.
In order to be considered for this position, you must have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.). Do you meet the above education requirements? (Submission of transcripts are required for this position.)

(Current NLRB Attorneys are not required to submit a copy of their transcripts. However, current employees within 3 years from receiving their juris doctorate degree, must provide a transcript with their application package.)

 Yes. I have successfully completed a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited college and/or university.
 No. I do not possess a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited college and/or university.


3.
To be considered for this position, you must certify your Bar Membership is in good standing. (Your active Bar license must reference Bar number and indicate the status of good standing.)
 Yes. I certify that I am an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution. I have provided proof of my active bar certification.
 No. I am not an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution.


4.
Your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references submitted. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
 
Understand this warning; and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes. I verify that my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if submitted supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙